pass all courses and still have specific academic weaknesses which might cause denial of screeningapplications.)5. Teaching competence (as evidenced by successful completion of practica requirements). It is possiblefor a student to meet minimum grade point requirements and pass all courses and still have specificperformance weaknesses which might cause denial of screening applications. Each Screening IIapplication must be accompanied by additional documents, depending on the endorsement(s) beingsought.Department of Teaching and Learning Additional Documents1. Professional resume2. Parent Letter (only required for Secondary Education)3. Copy of first aid and CPR cards to amanda.vandoorn@vanderbilt.eduSpecial Education Additional Documents1. Professional resume2. Philosophy of Teaching Statement3. Copy of first aid and CPR cards to amanda.vandoorn@vanderbilt.eduDepartmental faculty will consider all criteria for each individual students and will vote on a recommendation foreach student. Students who are approved to student teach will receive notification of their student teachingplacements no later than during the Student Teacher Orientation at the beginning of the student teaching semester. All Vanderbilt teacher education programs are approved by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation(CAEP).  3+2 B.Mus.Arts/MBA Blair-to-Owen ProgramThe five-year dual-degree program between the Blair School of Music and the Owen Graduate School ofManagement allows a small cohort of particularly motivated students to overlap their undergraduate course workwith work toward the MBA, facilitating the earning of both the undergraduate and graduate degrees in five years(ten semesters). By combining three and one-half years in Vanderbilt’s Blair School of Music with one and one-halfyears of study in the Owen School, students may obtain both the bachelor of musical arts and the master of businessadministration in five years. The baccalaureate from the Blair School is awarded at the end of the fourth year, andthe MBA from the Owen School after the fifth year. Students interested in pursuing this program must be enrolled inthe musical arts degree. Required course work includes the normal Blair course work for the musical arts degree, for a minimum of 63 credithours in music. The liberal arts core will also follow the requirements for the major, but must include the followingspecific requirements: Calculus (1 semester)Statistics, e.g., ECON 1500: Economic StatisticsECON 1010: Principles of MacroeconomicsECON 1020: Principles of MicroeconomicsECON 3012: Microeconomics A curriculum plan, including recommended electives, is provided in the Blair Student Handbook.  Students must apply to the Owen School for admission to the five-year program during their junior year. Studentsshould apply in Round 1 of the MBA application cycle (typically early October) of the junior year, and earlyapplication and a standardized test score (e.g., GMAT, GRE) are recommended. Acceptance into the five-yearprogram is extremely competitive and requires advanced standing earned in undergraduate courses. Being deficientPage 163 of 1019 