in full-time work experience, the 3+2 student must enhance their portfolio with an internship and outstandingacademic performance, and also show a strong commitment to a rigorous business education. The SummerBusiness Institute (Accelerator), as administered by the Owen Graduate School of Management, is stronglyrecommended for 3+2 applicants prior to matriculating at Owen. The successful applicant will bring anaccomplished academic record (normally a GPA of 3.3 or better), satisfactory internship or work experience, anability to articulate his or her own preparedness for the work environment, and a strong endorsement fromVanderbilt faculty. Students who are accepted to the 3+2 program will remain registered as B.Mus.Arts students through fall of senioryear, and will register as Owen students in spring of senior year. Academically, students will take a full load ofbusiness courses both in fall and spring of senior year while completing the final B.Mus.Arts degree requirements(normally, lessons and ensembles). Students must complete a minimum of 62 credit hours at Owen over foursemesters. Fifteen hours (normally in fall of the senior year) of Owen School courses approved by Blair may becounted toward completion of the undergraduate degree. Students with questions may contact Liz Scowden(liz.scowden@vanderbilt.edu) in the Owen Academic and Student Affairs Office. The completion of the B.Mus.Artsdegree requirements prior to fall of the student’s fifth year is required for continuation in the MBA program. Tuition and Financial AidThe scholarship or other financial aid commitment of the Blair School will not be continued automatically beyond theseventh semester for students enrolled in the dual-degree program. Eighth-semester financial aid is the student’sresponsibility. Students should notify the Owen School with their application if they are interested in being acandidate for an Owen scholarship during their MBA studies. Early application is recommended. Need-based aid willstill apply. Students pay tuition to the undergraduate school for the fall semester of their fourth year, after which all tuition ispaid to Owen (and reflects graduate school tuition rates). The Blair School of Music will waive fees for the requiredperformance instruction during spring of the fourth year to facilitate completion of the B.Mus.Arts requirements.Honors in the Blair School of MusicFounder's MedalAcademic Honors DesignationHonors Program in Musicology and EthnomusicologyDean's ListPi Kappa LambdaAwards and PrizesFounder’s MedalThe Founder’s Medal, signifying first honors, was endowed by Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt as one of his gifts tothe university. The recipient is named by the Dean after consideration of faculty recommendations as well as gradepoint averages of the year’s highest-ranking graduates. Academic Honors DesignationHonors, which are noted on diplomas and published in the Commencement Program, are earned as follows: Summa Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the top 5 percent of the previousthree years’ graduating seniors.Page 164 of 1019 