Arts & Science: Full-time students are expected to earn each semester at least 12 credit hours and a minimumgrade point average of 1.500. Students who fall short of these levels are normally placed on probation. Students areremoved from probation after earning at least 12 credit hours and a semester grade point average of 1.500 orbetter, assuming they have fulfilled the requirements for class standing stated below. First-year students who pass fewer than two regular courses in their first regular semester or who earn a semestergrade point average lower than 1.000 have so seriously compromised their academic standing that they may berequired to take a probationary leave of absence until the beginning of the following fall semester. First-year students who earn fewer than 9 credit hours or a grade point average lower than 1.500 in the fall may, atthe discretion of the Administrative Committee, choose a probationary leave for the spring and return the next fallwith two semesters in which to qualify for sophomore standing. A student on probationary leave may not earn credit at another institution for transfer to Vanderbilt. In appropriatecases the Administrative Committee may prescribe conditions that must be satisfied before the student returns froma probationary leave. Students who do not choose to return at the end of a probationary leave but want to returnlater are required to apply for reinstatement. After their first year, full-time students may not be placed on probation more than twice (continuance on probationfor a second semester counts as another probation). If a student’s performance is deficient a third time, the studentis dropped from the university. Students who have been authorized to carry fewer than 12 credit hours because of illness or outside employmentmay be placed on academic probation if their work is deemed unsatisfactory by the Administrative Committee; theyare removed from probation when the committee deems their work satisfactory. If they are not removed fromprobation after a reasonable period of time, such students are dropped. The internal record of a student dropped from the university under these regulations shows the notation “Droppedfor scholastic deficiency.”Academic Probation and Dismissal (Blair, PBDY)Blair: Students are placed on probation if they fail to meet class standing benchmarks, as noted above. Students onprobation must qualify for class standing in one additional semester or risk being dropped from the university. Students are placed on academic probation: if they fail to meet class standing benchmarks; if they complete fewerthan 12 hours in a fall or spring semester except in cases involving documented mitigating circumstances (illness,injury, or family emergency); or if their semester grade point averages fall below 1.8 overall or 2.0 in music. Inaddition, first-year students are placed on academic probation if they do not complete one writing course. Incomplete grades may adversely affect class standing or grade point averages. Students on academic probation may not transfer summer study credit, elect to take courses on a Pass/Fail basis,earn credit by departmental examination, or participate in any extracurricular performance activity. They arerequired to participate in a special academic advising program. Students will be placed on probation no more thantwice. Students who are candidates for probation a third time will be dropped from the university. Peabody: After achieving sophomore standing, the student may not be on academic probation for more than twoPage 89 of 1019 