 The re-examination must be requested through the Office of the Associate Deans, and if approved, it is givenimmediately after the close of the last semester of the student’s senior year. A student who passes the re-examination will receive a D– in the course. The terms and administration of senior re-examination are theresponsibility of the school that offers the course.Academic Standards & DisciplineAcademic Standing (VUSE)Engineering: Good Standing To remain in good academic standing, a student must pursue a program leading toward a degree in the School ofEngineering and meet all GPA and hours earned requirements at the conclusion of each fall and spring semester. Afirst-year student must successfully complete at least 12 hours and earn at least a 1.8 semester GPA each semesterto remain in good standing. A sophomore, junior, or senior must complete at least 12 hours and earn at least a 2.0semester GPA each semester to remain in good standing. In addition, a student must also promote to the nextacademic class every two regular semesters according to the VUSE promotion standards (above) to remain in goodstanding. Probation Students who fail to meet the GPA, hours earned, or class standing promotion standards required to remain in goodstanding will be placed on academic probation. Students who are not progressing toward a degree in the School ofEngineering may be placed on academic probation. Students who fail to return to good standing after a semester onprobation will be continued on probation or dismissed. Students who are on probation for three semesters riskdismissal. A student authorized by the Administrative Committee to carry fewer than 12 hours because of illness or for someother approved reason may be placed on probation if the student’s work is deemed unsatisfactory. Required Leave of Absence Under certain circumstances, a student may be required to take a semester-long leave of absence from theuniversity. Such a leave may be required for students for whom one or more of the following conditions apply:Failing to pass 6 or more credit hours in a semester;Earning a semester grade point average of 1.4 or less; orFailing to improve academic achievement while on probation.Dismissal Any student who is deemed by the Administrative Committee not to be making satisfactory progress toward adegree in engineering will be dismissed from the School of Engineering and from Vanderbilt University. Satisfactoryprogress includes completing required courses in a timely manner and maintaining a 2.000 GPA in all courses, in theschool, and in the student’s major. Causes of dismissal include:Failure of all courses in any semesterPage 87 of 1019 