Criteria for Screening I (formal admission to teacher education) are:A. Specific Academic Criteria1. Test scores (SAT composite score of 780 or ACT 21, OR passing scores on the Praxis I Core AcademicSkills for Educators) or university credit in reading, writing, and mathematics courses.2. Minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.75 (4-point scale)3. Successful completion of at least two of the required professional education courses as defined by theprogram area with a minimum grade of C+4. Department interviewB. Specific Faculty Evaluative Criteria: The faculty will consider the disposition criteria of dependability,professional and ethical behavior, attitude and interpersonal skills, and teaching competence as itemized atthe beginning of the Screening section.Screening II (Admission to Student Teaching)Admission to Student Teaching is not automatic when prerequisite course work and field experiences have beencompleted. All students must submit the online Screening II application by October 1 in the fall of the senior year. Atthe time of screening application, the student should be enrolled in any remaining prerequisite courses. No coursework may be taken during the semester of student teaching and seminar. After an initial review in the Office of Teacher Licensure, the Screening II application and other submitted materialswill be considered by departmental faculty according to the following criteria for Screening II approval to studentteach:A. Specific Academic Criteria1. Formal admission to a teacher education program granted (completion of Screening I)2. First semester senior standing (for student teaching in the spring of the senior year)3. Successful completion (C+ or above) of all courses required and prerequisite to student teaching asdefined by the program area4. Minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.75 (4.0 scale)5. Satisfactory performance (C+ or above) in course work in areas in which teacher licensure is sought6. Successful completion of Standard First Aid and CPR training (attach certificate copies to the ScreeningII application)B. Specific Faculty Evaluative Criteria: The faculty will consider the disposition criteria of dependability,professional and ethical behavior, attitude and interpersonal skills, and teaching competence as itemized atthe beginning of the Screening section.Each Screening II application requires additional documents, depending on the program. A copy of first aid and CPRverification of training completed within the previous two years must be submitted to the Office of TeacherLicensure by the October 1 or February 1 deadline. In addition, some programs have additional requirements thatare prerequisite to Screening II application. Students should consult departmental handbooks. Screening IIapplicants who are approved to student teach will receive notification of their student teaching placements no laterthan during the Student Teacher Orientation at the beginning of the student teaching semester. Students who have passed Screening II are assigned two specific student teaching placements in the Nashville area.Student TeachingVanderbilt students seeking teacher licensure must successfully complete a 15-week semester of full-time studentteaching in two different grade levels in Nashville area public schools and must be recommended for licensure bythe supervisors of student teaching and departmental faculty. Student teaching may be done only in the springsemester. Prior to the start of student teaching, all prerequisite courses must have been completed, the cumulativeGPA must be at least 2.75, and the appropriate departmental faculties must have voted to approve the candidate forstudent teaching during the previous semester as part of the Screening II application process. The Tennessee StateDepartment of Education and Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools prohibit student teachers from taking coursesduring student teaching. See the departmental Undergraduate Handbook for details.Application for Teacher Licensure and University Recommendation for LicensureAll students completing the teacher education program at Vanderbilt are strongly advised to apply for a license inTennessee whether or not they plan to teach in this state. In addition, licensure is available in most other states.Page 246 of 1019 