by the vice provost for university enrollment affairs. Please refer to the nondiscrimination statement which appearsearlier in this catalog. Admission to the four undergraduate schools is managed by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Prospective students are encouraged to investigate the university by visiting the campus, exploring the Office ofUndergraduate Admissions website, connecting via social media, and attending college fairs and other programshosted by Vanderbilt admissions officers across the country, around the world, and online. Admissions staff areavailable to answer questions, assist with understanding campus visit opportunities, provide additional informationabout degree programs, and link visitors with appropriate campus offices and members of the university community.Academic PreparationEvery candidate for admission must present an official transcript of work completed in high school. While ouradmissions process is holistic, most successful candidates will present a curriculum that includes the equivalent offive academic subjects each year for four years. Recommended course work includes 4 units of English, 4 units ofmathematics, 4 units of natural science, 2 units of foreign language, 2 units of social science/humanities, and 4 unitsof additional course work in these areas, or other academic courses such as engineering science, computer science,social science or natural science research, or advanced work in the humanities. Close attention will be paid to therigor of course work presented. It is highly recommended that candidates applying to the School of Engineering havetaken calculus, calculus-based physics, and chemistry. Most successful candidates will have meaningfully engaged with the academic, intellectual, social, and leadershipopportunities available in the context of their high schools and communities. In exceptionally rare cases, studentsmay be considered for admission before completing four years of high school. In these cases, the AdmissionsCommittee considers especially evidence of maturity and readiness for an immersive, residential collegeexperience.Application Procedure — First-year Applicants1. Applicants must apply to Vanderbilt through Coalition, powered by Scoir, the Common Application, or theQuestBridge Application. Applications for admission may be accessed online atadmissions.vanderbilt.edu/apply.2. Applicants must arrange for their high school to submit an official transcript and their School Report to theOffice of Undergraduate Admissions via one of the application portals.3. For students applying for fall 2025 entry, Vanderbilt is test optional. Scores from the ACT or SAT are notrequired to be considered for admission. Applicants who want their test scores to be considered may self-report them on the application or may have official scores sent to Vanderbilt by the testing agency. Scorereports appearing on official high school transcripts are accepted as official. Official test scores will berequired for students who applied with testing and who were admitted and enroll.4. A $50 nonrefundable application fee, or fee waiver for qualified students, is required.5. On the application for admission, select the decision plan for which you wish to be considered: Early DecisionI, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision.Early Decision plans are designed for students whose first-choice college is Vanderbilt. These plans arebinding: if offered admission, students agree to attend Vanderbilt and to withdraw all otherapplications for admission. In addition to the other application requirements, the Early DecisionAgreement must be submitted. Signatures are required from the applicant, the applicant’sparent/guardian, and the high school counselor.The Regular Decision plan is designed for students who are considering many college options and whowish to compare offers of admission and financial aid before committing to one college. Applicants willbe admitted, denied, or offered a spot on the waitlist. Waitlisted students may be offered admissionlater in the spring.Deadlines:Early Decision I — submit application by November 1Early Decision II — submit application by January 1*Regular Decision — submit application by January 1**Priority deadline for Blair applicants is December 16. Blair School of Music applicants are required to follow the audition protocol detailed on the Blair website(blair.vanderbilt.edu/admissions/apply.php). Selected applicants will be invited to audition in person onPage 33 of 1019 