JUNIOR YEAR Leading People and Effective Communication (transfers as HOD 2051)A course that teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership.  Special emphasis isplaced on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadershipand management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. A mandatory junior yearLeadership Laboratory provides advanced leadership experiences and the opportunity to apply the leadership andmanagement principles of this course.SENIOR YEAR National Security Affairs/Preparation for Active Duty (no credit at Vanderbilt)This course is designed for college seniors and provides them with the foundation to understand their role asmilitary officers in American society. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the militaryprofession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. The final semesterprovides information that will prepare the cadets for Active Duty. A mandatory senior year Leadership Laboratoryprovides advanced leadership experiences and the opportunity to apply the leadership and management principlesof this course.Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC)Military Science DepartmentMilitary Science Courses  The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) is a sequential and progressive academic program that providespre-commission training for college-educated men and women who desire to serve as commissioned officers in theactive Army, Army Reserve, and Army National Guard. As the Army’s largest commissioning source, it fulfills a vitalrole in providing mature young men and women for leadership and management positions in an increasinglytechnological Army. Admission is open to both men and women who meet mental, moral, and physicalqualifications. Training goes beyond the typical college classroom and is designed to build individual confidence and self-discipline, instill values and ethics, and develop leadership skills. The course load consists of one course persemester. Each succeeding year will address course topics in greater depth as students receive feedback on theirleadership style and assume positions of greater responsibility within the program. Graduates are commissioned asSecond Lieutenants and will enter active duty with follow-on employment in the Army Reserves, National Guard, oractive duty. Educational delays may be granted for graduates who desire to pursue advanced degrees prior to entryon active duty. All university students in the Nashville area may participate in the Army ROTC program at Vanderbilt University.While Vanderbilt serves as the host university, students at partnership schools are not charged additional tuition totake military science courses. Grades are transferred back to each university and added to the students’ transcripts. Scholarships. Students can earn merit scholarships in several ways. High school seniors and graduates compete forfour-year scholarships that are determined by local competition among Vanderbilt applicants. Although determinedlocally, the application process is centrally managed. Scholarship students receive financial benefits that cover thecost of full tuition scholarships each year, an annual $1,200 book allowance, all uniforms, and a monthly tax-freestipend of $420. Vanderbilt University also provides Vanderbilt ROTC scholarship students an additional $6,000tuition grant each year for room and board. Students who are not on scholarship receive the monthly stipend during their junior and senior years. All studentsPage 26 of 1019 