withdrawal published in the University Calendar, generally Friday of the week after mid-semester. A change ofcourse request form must be signed by the instructor, adviser, and associate dean and filed with the Office ofAcademic Services. (Students from other schools of the university must file with their home school.) Withdrawalsafter the published deadline result in an F. The grade W may be assigned by the associate dean to a student whoseeks to withdraw from a course or from school after the deadline for reasons such as extended illness or unusualpersonal or family problems. No W grades are calculated in a student’s grade point average. Engineering:  After the Change Period and extending to the deadline published on the Undergraduate AcademicCalendar, a student may withdraw from a course with approval of the student’s adviser. Under certain conditions,withdrawal may also require approval from the senior associate dean. During the same period students may changetheir status from P/F to regularly graded or vice versa. The W is recorded for any course from which a studentwithdraws. A course in which a W is recorded is not used in figuring grade point averages. Peabody: The symbol W (withdrawal) is assigned in lieu of a grade when a student formally withdraws from a classbefore the published mid-semester deadline. After that point, withdrawal will result in an F. A student whowithdraws from school for reasons such as illness, unusual personal or family problems, and the like, may petitionthe Dean’s Office for an authorized administrative withdrawal. If approved, the student will receive the grade W forcourses in progress. A student who withdraws from school without an authorized administrative withdrawal receivesthe grade W or F depending upon the date of withdrawal. The grade W is not included in the calculation of the gradepoint average.Taking Courses for No Credit (A&S, Blair)Arts & Science: Students may want to take elsewhere in the university courses that are not creditable toward thebachelor’s degree. They may do so on a no-credit basis, attending classes, doing all the work of the course, andreceiving a grade that is recorded on the transcript with a notation that it does not count toward the degree. No-credit courses count in computation of the student’s academic load and in computation of tuition, but not incomputation of the grade point average. They also do not count toward the attainment of class standing. Blair: Students who wish to take courses on a no-credit basis must file with the Blair Office of Academic Servicesbefore the end of the Change Period. Students must attend class and complete all course work. A grade is recordedon the transcript with the notation "Grading Basis: No Credit Toward Current Degree," indicating that it does notcount toward the degree. No-credit courses count in the computation of a student’s academic load and tuition, but not in the computation ofthe grade point average.Auditing (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: Regularly enrolled Arts and Science students who want to audit courses in any of theundergraduate schools of the university must obtain the written consent of the instructor to attend the class but donot register for the course for credit. Forms are available from the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education in eachschool. No permanent record is kept of the audit. Regular students may audit one class each semester. Blair: Regularly enrolled Blair students who want to audit courses in any of the undergraduate schools of theuniversity must complete the change of course request form and obtain the written consent of the instructor toattend the class but do not register for the course for credit. No permanent record is kept of the audit. Regularstudents may audit one class each semester. Engineering: Regularly enrolled students in the School of Engineering who want to audit courses in any of theundergraduate schools of the university must get the written consent of the instructor to attend the class andPage 64 of 1019 