Magna Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 8 percent of the previousthree years’ graduating seniors.Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 12 percent of the previous threeyears’ graduating seniors. Honors Program in Musicology and EthnomusicologyThe honors program in musicology and ethnomusicology is designed to afford superior students the opportunity topursue more intensive work within the field of musicology or ethnomusicology, culminating in the preparation of asenior honors thesis. The course of study includes seminar work as well as independent study and writing under thesupervision of a thesis adviser. Students who want to do honors work should contact the chair of the musicology andethnomusicology department in the fall of their junior year. Departmental approval of a formal honors thesisprospectus must take place prior to registration for MUSL 4998 in spring of the junior year or fall of the senior year.Minimum requirements are a 3.0 GPA overall and 3.3 in musicology and ethnomusicology courses. Students accepted into the program must take a total of 9 credit hours: MUSL 4998–4999, Senior Honors Thesis (6hours), and one course (beyond the MUSL core) chosen from MUSL 2610, 3160, 3220-3240, or 3890 (3 hours). Inaddition, successful completion of the honors program requires an oral defense of the honors thesis before a facultycommittee. This defense will occur at the end of the second semester of thesis enrollment. Those enrolled in theprogram who successfully complete its requirements with distinction may graduate with Honors or Highest Honors inmusicology and ethnomusicology. Dean’s ListThe Dean’s List recognizes outstanding academic performance in a semester. Students are named to the Dean’s Listwhen they earn a grade point average of at least 3.500 while carrying 12 or more graded hours, with no temporaryor missing grades in any course (credit or non-credit), and no grade of F. Pi Kappa LambdaElection to Pi Kappa Lambda National Music Honor Society signifies superior accomplishment in the field of music.Students elected to membership must be outstanding musically and scholastically and ranked in the highest 20percent of the senior class or the highest 10 percent of the junior class. The Eta Iota chapter was installed atVanderbilt on April 8, 1992. Professor Karen Ann Krieger serves as its president. Awards and PrizesSeveral awards are presented to students at the Blair School of Music. Announcement is made at the final studentrecital/convocation of the spring semester. Each carries a monetary stipend. Awards, which are published in theCommencement Program, are as follows: ACHIEVEMENT IN TEACHING AWARD. The Achievement in Teaching Award is presented by the faculty to a seniorwho has demonstrated superior abilities in teaching. The recipient must intend to teach music professionally in anindependent studio or a classroom, or at the collegiate level. ANDREW SANG HAN MEMORIAL AWARD. Established in memory of Sang Han, a clarinet performance major at Blairfrom 2012 to 2015. Sang’s dedication to excellence in all areas of performance, from small chamber ensembles towind symphony and orchestra, as well as the care and consideration he showed his peers, served as an example tohis friends and colleagues at the Blair School. Presented to a woodwind or brass student who demonstratesremarkable musicianship and leadership in all areas of ensemble playing.Page 165 of 1019 
 THE BLAIR VOLUNTEER SERVICE THROUGH MUSIC AWARD. Established in 2009, the award recognizes a studentwho, using music in service to others, has performed with extraordinary effort and distinction, particularly at the W.O. Smith Community Music School. CHRISTIAN TEAL AWARD. This award recognizes a current string student who embodies the collaborative spirit ofProfessor Chris Teal, who retired in 2015 as Joseph Joachim Professor of Violin after forty-two years at the BlairSchool. DAVID RABIN PRIZE. Established in memory of David Rabin, M.D., a professor of medicine and professor of obstetricsand gynecology at Vanderbilt from 1975 to 1984, and awarded for excellence in musical performance to a studentenrolled at the Blair School of Music. ELLIOT AND AILSA NEWMAN PRIZE. Endowed by Mrs. Ailsa Mackay Newman, in memory of her husband, Elliott VossNewman, M.D., and his love of the clarinet. Dr. Newman was the Werthan Professor of Experimental Medicine atVanderbilt from 1952 until his death in 1973. This prize is awarded to a promising clarinet or woodwind student forexcellence in performance. EXCELLENCE IN PIANO PERFORMANCE AWARD. This award is given by Blair faculty member Amy Kane Jarman inmemory of her mother, June Kane, a 1947 piano performance graduate of the University of Colorado Boulder, andlifelong musician. JEAN KELLER HEARD PRIZE. Established in honor of violinist Jean Keller Heard and awarded for excellence in musicalperformance to a string student or students seeking the bachelor of music at the Blair School of Music. JULIUS AND MAGDA LACHS AWARD. Funded by Vanderbilt’s Centennial Professor of Philosophy, John Lachs, inmemory of his mother, Magda, a passionate opera enthusiast, and his father, Julius Lachs. It is given to anoutstanding voice or orchestra student who participated in the current year’s Vanderbilt Opera Theatre production. L. HOWARD “ZEKE” NICAR AWARD. Established in memory of L. Howard “Zeke” Nicar, the Blair School of Music’sfirst assistant dean for admissions. This award is presented to an outstanding student, for excellence inperformance, as selected by the woodwind or brass faculty. MARGARET BRANSCOMB PRIZE. Established in memory of Margaret Branscomb, wife of Vanderbilt ChancellorEmeritus Harvie Branscomb, and presented to a first-year student judged by the faculty to have the personal andmusical qualities which best exemplify the spirit and standards of Blair. MARK WAIT AWARD. Awarded for academic excellence and exemplary citizenship to a Blair senior with a secondmajor outside of music. The Wait Award was created by an anonymous donor in honor of Mark Wait’s tenure asdean of the Blair School. MARTIN WILLIAMS AWARD. Established in memory of Martin Williams, former director of the SmithsonianInstitution’s Jazz Program and an adjunct professor of jazz history at Blair. This award is presented to the studentwriting the most outstanding class paper during the academic year.MICHELSON AWARD IN COLLABORATIVE ARTS. Established in honor of Laura Michelson, BMus’11, this award isPage 166 of 1019 