Faculty Coordinators and Program DirectorsMARY BIDDLECOMBE, Director, Blair AcademyDANIEL TAYLOR, Ph.D., Music Education ProgramJOSHUA MCGUIRE, Aural Skills, Musicians' Wellness, Music TechnologyRYAN MIDDAGH, Director, Jazz StudiesBRIAN UTLEY, Chamber Music, ImmersionRUSSELL PLATT and JAMA REAGAN, Music MinorsRUSSELL PLATT, Music as a Second MajorCommitteesFor a list of committees, please visit blair.vanderbilt.edu.FacultyFor a list of current faculty, please visit vanderbilt.edu/faculty-affairs/faculty-registry/.The Degree ProgramsBachelor of MusicBachelor of Musical ArtsLiberal Arts CoreBachelor of MusicThe Bachelor of Music degree program includes five different majors: performance, composition, jazz studies,integrated studies, and integrated studies/teacher education. The performance major is available in any orchestralinstrument, piano, saxophone, euphonium, and voice. The composition major emphasizes both the creation andanalysis of music. The major in jazz studies combines performance, composition, improvisation, musicianship,analysis, music technology, entrepreneurship, and an emphasis on global music. Optional concentrations areavailable in collaborative arts, composition, conducting, ethnomusicology, jazz, multiple woodwinds, music and themind, musicology, pedagogy, or music theory. The integrated studies major provides a solid foundation in the art ofmusic and includes a required concentration in collaborative arts, composition, conducting, ethnomusicology, jazz,multiple woodwinds, musicology, pedagogy, music theory, or an individually designed area. The integrated studies/teacher education program, a five-year curriculum jointly developed with Peabody College, isfor students interested in earning the master of education degree and teacher licensure in addition to the bachelorof music degree. Students in this curriculum can earn the B.Mus. degree in four years and the M.Ed. and teacherlicensure for instrumental/general or vocal/general music in the fifth year (June–May). All bachelor of music degree candidates complete a program designed to ensure an intense, yet broadly-based,understanding of the discipline of music, focused on the skills and knowledge students will need to succeed asinformed musicians of the twenty-first century. Each student must complete 126 credit hours, including 80 hours inmusic. The music core (44 credit hours minimum) includes music theory, aural skills, keyboard harmony,ethnomusicology/musicology, conducting, technology for musicians, pedagogy, and ensemble. Each major hasadditional specific requirements, including performance instruction and other music courses (to fulfill 80 hours). Liberal arts core requirements (minimum of 30 hours) include English, the humanities, courses chosen from historyor social science, mathematics or natural science, and academic electives. Students may take free electives to total126 hours. Sample curriculum plans are in the Blair Student Handbook at blair.vanderbilt.edu/academics.Page 136 of 1019 