Blair School of Music is home to internationally known faculty soloists and ensembles, and Blair’s performers,composers, ethnomusicologists, and musicologists are among the most respected in their fields. Members of thefaculty ensembles provide private performance instruction and coach chamber music ensembles and performanceclasses. The faculty's dedication to teaching and a low student/faculty ratio provide students the personal attentionthat fosters maximum musical growth and understanding. The school is committed to its goal of developing studentswho are among the most articulate, culturally aware, and artistically sensitive of any graduates in the country. FacilitiesThe Blair building incorporates innovative developments in acoustical design and engineering. It contains teachingstudios and faculty offices, classrooms, rehearsal halls, practice rooms, library, administrative offices, technologyand keyboard labs, and concert venues. The 272-seat Steve and Judy Turner Recital Hall is the locus for studentrecitals and concerts and master classes by faculty members and visiting artists held on a regular basis. It alsohouses the Dobson Organ Opus 92 (2014), designed in the tradition of eighteenth-century eastern German organsnot unlike those Bach knew, with additions and accommodations for twenty-first century use. Opened in spring2002, the 609-seat Ingram Hall garnered immediate acclaim for its superb acoustics, its visual beauty, and itsenhancement of the school’s ability to host and produce orchestra, opera, and other major concert events. The Anne Potter Wilson Music Library is a division of the Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries. The collection, begunin 1947, was moved from Peabody College to its new and permanent home at Blair in the summer of 1985. Namedto honor Anne Potter Wilson by the Vanderbilt Board of Trust in 1987, the 12,000-square-foot library holds morethan 116,000 books, scores, sound and video recordings, and subscriptions to journals and online music databases.It is equipped with a seminar room, listening and viewing stations, computer workstations, and study facilities. Avariety of equipment is available for check out including laptops, microphones, phone chargers, midi keyboards,headphones, and umbrellas. Music librarians and staff are available to assist users with music research and findingresources for performance, study, or instruction. The Blair Concert SeriesThe Blair Concert Series offers a broad array of music performances to the university community and the region.National and international artists and ensembles, the Blair faculty, including resident ensembles and soloists, andstudent ensembles and performers are all featured. All student recitals are open to the public. More than 350concerts are presented at the school each year, and most are free of charge, as a gift to the community. A milestone in the Blair School's history was “The Blair Commissions: Music for the 21st Century,” a project fundedby the James Stephen Turner Family Charitable Foundation, which has commissioned several important works byrenowned composers from 2005 through 2019. These include works by Susan Botti and Peter Schickele and fourmajor works by Michael Hersch. Each composition received its premiere in Nashville, and all the works were theneither recorded or performed in New York. The project has served two intertwined missions: to promote thecomposition of outstanding works by the world’s leading composers and to invite attention to the excellentensembles and faculty performers of Vanderbilt University. Composers-in-residence who have visited the Blair School include Robert Beaser, William Bolcom, Susan Botti,George Crumb, Michael Daugherty, Lukas Foss, Gabriela Lena Frank, John Harbison, Michael Hersch, Karel Husa,Steven Mackey, Donald Martino, Cindy McTee, Jessie Montgomery, Kevin Puts, Christopher Rouse, AdamSchoenberg, Joseph Schwantner, Frank Ticheli, Michael Torke, and Joan Tower. Blair Academy at VanderbiltIndividual, group, class, and ensemble instruction for precollege and adult students (defined as students above highschool age not receiving university credit) is offered through the Blair Academy at Vanderbilt. Course offerings areavailable at blair.vanderbilt.edu/blair-academy/.Page 129 of 1019 