Electrical and Computer Engineering in the Undergraduate Catalog. BME 3302 may be includedtoward satisfying the Area of Concentration requirement but cannot be counted as an Electricaland Computer Engineering elective.at least one Design Domain Expertise course as designated in the catalog.II. The double major in biomedical and chemical engineering requires a minimum of 131 hours and is describedin the chemical engineering section of the catalog under its curriculum requirements.Business StudiesDIRECTOR Joseph J. RandoASSOCIATE PROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE Marcy Binkley, Willis J. Hulings, Jamie Leddin, Patrick R. Leddin, Joseph J.Rando, Garnett H. Slatton, Leonora WilliamsonLECTURERS Jonathan Dyke, Stuart Garber, Gary McClure, Bob Spieth, Brad White COURSES OFFERED: BUS, BUSA The College of Arts and Science offers select courses under the Business Studies Program to help studentsunderstand marketing, accounting, entrepreneurship, management, corporate strategy, negotiation, and analytics.These elective courses are offered by the Business Studies program. The program is directed by Joseph J. Rando,215 Calhoun Hall, (615)-322-4021.Chemical EngineeringMissionDegree ProgramsUndergraduate Honors ProgramFacilitiesCurriculum RequirementsDouble MajorsSpecimen Curriculum for Chemical Engineering  CHAIR Paul E. LaibinisDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE PROGRAM Jamey D. YoungDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE RECRUITING G. Kane JenningsDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Ethan LippmanPROFESSORS EMERITI Peter T. Cummings, Thomas R. Harris, M. Douglas LeVan, K. Arthur Overholser, Peter N.Pintauro, Robert J. Roselli, Robert D. Tanner PROFESSORS Craig L. Duvall, Todd D. Giorgio, Scott A. Guelcher, G. Kane Jennings, David S. Kosson, Paul E. Laibinis,Matthew J. Lang, Sandra J. Rosenthal, Krishnendu Roy, Florence Sanchez, Jamey D. Young, Marija ZanicPROFESSOR OF THE PRACTICE Russell F. DunnRESEARCH PROFESSORS Peter T. Cummings, Clare M. McCabe, Peter N. PintauroASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS Kenneth A. DebelakASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Ivelin Georgiev, Shihong Lin, Ethan S. Lippmann, Bridget R. Rogers, John T.  WilsonPage 318 of 1019 
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Mona Ebrish, Piran Kidambi, Marjan Rafat, Carlos A. Silvera Batista, Zhongyue YangASSISTANT PROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE Davud C. Florian, Julianne VernonRESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Karan Arora, Vijaya Bharti, Peifu Chang, Clinton Hasenour, Hyosung Kim, Bo Li,Hongjun LiuADJUNCT ASSISTANT PROFESSOR Bryan R. Beyer COURSES OFFERED: CHBE Chemical engineers play key roles in the development and production of commodity chemicals, pharmaceuticals,and bioengineered materials, high strength composites and specialty polymers, semiconductors and microelectronicdevices, and a wide range of ultrapure fine chemicals. Indeed, chemical engineering is essential for the operation ofcontemporary society. The solutions to many of the problems that we face today—e.g., energy, the environment,development of high-performance materials—will involve chemical engineers. The undergraduate program in chemical engineering prepares students to contribute to the solution of these andsimilar problems. Graduates find meaningful careers in industry, in government laboratories, and as consultants.Some continue their education through graduate studies in chemical engineering, business, law, or medicine. Mission. The mission of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is to educate those who willadvance the knowledge base in chemical engineering, become practicing chemical engineers, and be leaders in thechemical and process industries, academia, and government; to conduct both basic and applied research inchemical engineering and related interdisciplinary areas; and to provide service to the chemical engineeringprofession, the School of Engineering, Vanderbilt University, the country, and the world. Degree Programs. The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering offers the B.E. in chemicalengineering and graduate study leading to the M.Eng., M.S., and Ph.D. Undergraduate chemical engineering students acquire a solid background in mathematics, chemistry, biology,physics, and computing. The chemical and biomolecular engineering program has as its basis courses in transportphenomena, thermodynamics, separations, and kinetics. Other courses deal with the principles and techniques ofchemical engineering analysis and design, along with economic analysis, process control, chemical process safety,bioprocessing, process simulation, and engineering ethics. Laboratory courses offer the student an opportunity tomake fundamental measurements of momentum, heat, and mass transport and to gain hands-on experience withbench scale and small scale pilot-plant equipment, which can be computer controlled. Effective report writing andtechnical communication are principal skills gained in the laboratory and design courses. Many students carry outindividual research projects. A specimen curriculum for a chemical engineering major follows. This standard program includes electives thatstudents, in consultation with their faculty advisers, select to pursue breadth or a minor or focus area with theirchemical engineering major. Specimen curricula with emphases in specific areas are available on the departmentwebsite. Double majors may be arranged in consultation with a faculty adviser. Students are recommended to take the Fundamentals of Engineering Examination (FE) in their senior year. This isthe first step in obtaining a license as a professional engineer. The following courses are recommended forpreparation for the FE: ECE 2112, CE 2200, and ME 2190. Undergraduate Honors Program. The Honors Program in chemical engineering provides an opportunity for selectedPage 319 of 1019 