Environmental Chemistry Focus. Environmental chemistry concerns the chemical phenomena that occur in nature.Environmental chemistry spans atmospheric, aquatic, and soil chemistry with a reliance on analytical chemistry formethods of analysis. Environmental chemistry can be applied to the understanding of issues such as ground waterpollution, wastewater treatment, ozone depletion, and greenhouse gas emissions. Suggested in-depth chemistryelectives: 3120, 3300, 3310, 3860, EES 4600. Materials Chemistry Focus. Materials chemistry is concerned with designing and synthesizing new materials withspecific useful properties and determining the relationships between physical properties and the composition andstructure of these new materials. Materials chemistry encompasses all size regimes from bulk to nanoscale.Synthetic chemistry (inorganic and organic), physical chemistry, and analytical chemistry are all importantcomponents of this field. Suggested in-depth chemistry electives: 3120, 3630, 2610, 3310, 2610, 3860, 5320, 5610,5620. Minor in ChemistryThe minor in chemistry requires 18 credit hours of course work, including 4 credit hours from 1602 and 1602L or APcredit, and 14 credit hours selected from any of the courses acceptable for the major in chemistry. Honors in ChemistryStudents with an overall GPA of at least 3.3 and a GPA of at least 3.4 in chemistry courses at the start of their junioryear wishing to do honors will register for the honors research courses (CHEM 3980, 4980, 4999) beginning springsemester junior year. The CHEM 4965 and 4966 requirements are waived in lieu of the CHEM 3980, 4980, and 4999registrations. Honors candidates must present a thesis on the research done under CHEM 3980, 4980, and 4999 andpass an oral examination. Additional information may be found in the chapter on Special Programs in the College. Licensure for TeachingCandidates for teacher licensure in chemistry at the secondary level should refer to the chapter on Licensure forTeaching in the Peabody College section of this catalog. One semester of the CHEM 4965–4966 sequence will beconsidered fulfilled by completing the Peabody student teaching requirements. Introductory CoursesIntroductory chemistry is offered in two different sequences, each with its own laboratory. Only one set of thesecourses may be taken for credit. 1. Chemistry 1010, 1010L. Intended for liberal arts students who are not planning to take any additionalchemistry courses. It treats chemistry in a nonmathematical fashion, with some historical and philosophicalfeatures. Not for science and engineering students.2. Chemistry 1601–1602. Designed for engineering, science, and premedical students. This course, which mustbe taken simultaneously with 1601L–1602L, serves as preparation for students intending to major inchemistry, biology, physics, or earth and environmental sciences. It is a more rigorous, mathematicalapproach to chemistry and a prerequisite for organic and other chemistry courses. It is not intended for liberalarts students taking a science course only to fulfill AXLE requirements.Civil EngineeringB.E./M.Eng. Five Year ProgramConstruction Management Five Year ProgramUndergraduate Honors ProgramFacilitiesPage 325 of 1019 
Curriculum RequirementsSpecimen Curriculum for Civil EngineeringPre-Architecture Advising  CHAIR Caglar OskayASSOCIATE CHAIR Hiba BaroudDIRECTORS OF GRADUATE STUDIES Daniel B. Work (Civil Engineering), Florence Sanchez (EnvironmentalEngineering)DIRECTORS OF GRADUATE RECRUITING Hiba Baroud (Civil Engineering), Shihong Lin (Environmental Engineering)DIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Lori A. TroxelPROFESSORS EMERITI Prodyot K. Basu, Peter G. Hoadley, George M. Hornberger, Richard E. Speece, Robert E.Stammer, Jr., Edward L. ThackstonPROFESSORS Mark D. Abkowitz, Douglas E. Adams, John Ayers, David J. Furbish, Jonathan Gilligan, David S. Kosson,Eugene J. Leboeuf, Sankaran Mahadevan, Caglar Oskay, Florence Sanchez, Jonathan Sprinkle, Matthew Weinger,Daniel B. WorkPROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE Curtis D. Byers, Sanjiv Gokhale, Steven L. Krahn, Lori A. TroxelRESEARCH PROFESSORS Kevin G. Brown, Andrew G. Garrabrants, Craig E. PhilipADJUNCT ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Zhiliang Chen, Richard Stringer-Hye, Jesus Gomez Velez, Xinyue Wang, Siyuan YuASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Hiba Baroud, Alan R. Bowers, Ravindra Duddu, Shihong Lin, Ahmad TahaRESEARCH ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Pranav KarveASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF THE PRACTICE Ghina AbsiRESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Ishita Dash, Leah Dundon, Chen Gruber, Paul JohnsonADJUNCT PROFESSORS Gregory L. Cashion, Allen G. Croff, James P. Dobbins, Andrea George, Boualem Hadjerioua,Ofra Klein-BenDavid, Janette Meyers, Vic L. McConnell L. Hampton Turner IV, Hans A. Van der Sloot, Raymond G.WymerADJUNCT INSTRUCTORS David Livingston, Keith Loiseau, Scott Potter, Minh Nghiem, Heather Smith, Bryan Tharpe,Hannah Walter, Adrian WardLECTURER Phillip Collins COURSES OFFERED: CE Vanderbilt's Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering offers a broad-based education in civil andenvironmental engineering fundamentals, coupled with development of leadership, management, andcommunications skills to establish a foundation for lifelong learning and flexible career development. This goalrequires going beyond technical competence in a balanced education to develop future leaders in the fields ofconsulting, industry, business, law, government, and research. B.E. in civil engineering. Civil engineers must be able to face complex problems of modern society involving thedevelopment of physical facilities that serve the public while protecting the environment and preserving socialvalues. Challenges facing civil and environmental engineers concern housing, urban transportation, pollutioncontrol, water resources development, industrial development, maintaining and advancing our nation’s agingPage 326 of 1019 