 THE WALTHER AWARD FOR VUCEPT EXCELLENCE (WAVE) was established in 2005 by Beverly R. Walther, B.S. 1990,MBA 1990, and Michael C. Walther II, B.S. 1989, MBA 1990, to reward undergraduate students serving as mentors inthe VUcept orientation program at the discretion of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, ordesignee. THE THOMAS M. WESER AWARD was established in 1989 by multiple donors to provide support for an annual awardhonoring an international student who has demonstrated an exceptional commitment to intellectual life, cross-cultural appreciation, and personal integrity at Vanderbilt University. Weser Award recipients are typically active instudent organizations and community service projects outside of the classroom and maintain a solid record ofacademic performance at the undergraduate or graduate level. This fund was established in memory of Thomas M.Weser, an exchange student from Germany who was killed while attending Vanderbilt University in 1988. THE MARTIN WILLIAMS AWARD was established in 1992 by multiple donors to provide an award to a music majorwriting the most outstanding paper for a music theory or literature/history course at the Blair School of Music. Thisfund was established in memory of Martin Williams, director of the Smithsonian Institution’s jazz program andadjunct professor of jazz history at the Blair School of Music. THE FRANK A. WOODS AWARD IN HISTORY was established in 2008 by Mr. James Lachs, B.S. 1993, to provide anaward for a graduating senior majoring in history with the most distinguished academic record at the College of Artsand Science. The fund was created in honor of Mr. Frank A. Woods, B.A. 1963, LL.B. 1966. THE KATHERINE B. WOODWARD PRIZE IN SPANISH was established in 1943 by Katherine B. Woodward, B.A. 1919, toprovide an award to the student with the highest average majoring in Spanish at the College of Arts and Science.Preference in awarding will be given to senior year students. Miss Woodward served as a teacher then head of theSpanish Department at the Woodrow Wilson High School in Portsmouth, Virginia, from 1919 until her retirement in1956. She had a deep love for Vanderbilt and an intense interest in promoting the teaching of Spanish.Undergraduate Academic RegulationsInstitutional Policies and Student ObligationsHonor System (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science/Blair/Engineering/Peabody: All academic work at Vanderbilt is done under the Honor System.(See the chapter on Life at Vanderbilt.)Responsibility to be Informed (VUSE)Engineering: It is the responsibility of the student to keep informed of course requirements and scheduling. Failureto do so may jeopardize graduation.Class Attendance (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: Students are expected to attend all scheduled meetings of classes in which they are enrolled; theyhave an obligation to contribute to the academic performance of all students by full participation in the work of eachclass. At the beginning of the semester, instructors explain the policy regarding absences in each of their classes,and thereafter they report to the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education in the College of Arts and Science thename of any student whose achievement in a course is being adversely affected by excessive absences. In suchcases an associate dean, in consultation with the instructor, takes appropriate action, which may include droppingthe student from the class; students dropped after the deadline for withdrawal (see Period for Withdrawal) receivethe grade F. Class attendance may be specified as a factor in determining the final grade in a course, and it cannotfail to influence the grade even when it is not considered explicitly. Page 56 of 1019 