Students with first majors in elementary, secondary, or special education with an SAT II Mathematics test score at orabove 620 (Level I) or at or above 570 (Level II) are exempt from three hours of the math component of the LiberalEducation Core mathematics category. Students with an exemption must take an additional three credit hours intheir Liberal Education Core elective category to have the minimum required sixty-hour core. Students must take astatistics course if required for their major. Students with first majors in child development, child studies, cognitive studies, or human and organizationaldevelopment must take six hours as stated in the Liberal Education Core mathematics category.Progress Evaluation (PBDY)Peabody: Students enrolled in Peabody College are expected to satisfy most Liberal Education Core requirementsduring the freshman and sophomore years. Although legitimate circumstances sometimes force the postponementof Liberal Education Core requirements, upper-level students are not expected to have a significant number ofLiberal Education Core requirements outstanding. A student who, in the opinion of the faculty adviser, thedepartment chair, or the associate dean for undergraduate academic affairs, is not making satisfactory progresstoward meeting Liberal Education Core or other degree requirements may be reported to the UndergraduateAdministrative Committee and is subject to being placed on academic probation by that committee. Students placedon academic probation for failure to make satisfactory progress toward a degree must remove the deficiency in themanner specified by the Administrative Committee.Writing Portfolio (Blair)Blair: Students in their senior year are required to submit a writing portfolio drawn from academic course work fromone or more classes to be evaluated by a faculty committee. Emphasis should be placed on demonstrating anability to write clearly and effectively and on the student’s ability to form connections across two or moredisciplines. Students are required to prepare a one-paragraph narrative explaining how the submitted workdemonstrates the required competencies.Degree Audit Reports (Blair)Blair: An online degree audit is available on YES to all Blair students, showing total hours earned, degreerequirements completed, and those still to be met. Students should examine the audit carefully with their facultyadvisers. Problems or suspected errors should be discussed immediately with the Blair Office of Academic Services.Declaring of Major and of Second Major (PBDY)Peabody: Peabody students declare a major as part of the application process prior to admission. In their firstsemester, Peabody freshmen are expected to take course work recommended for the major into which they wereadmitted. Students wishing to change into a different major within Peabody cannot declare this change until Marchof their first year. Second majors must be declared no later than the second semester of the sophomore year. Also,during the sophomore year, students majoring in secondary education and special education will be required todeclare their area of specialization or track.Overlap in Course Work between Multiple Majors and Minors (PBDY)Peabody: Students pursuing multiple majors and/or optional minors are limited in the amount of course work thatcan be shared across their major and minor programs of study. If the major or minor is offered through a schoolother than Peabody, the amount of course work that can be shared between that major or minor and other majors orminors is determined by that school’s policies. For a major offered through Peabody College, at least 21 credit hoursneed to be unique to that major. That is, 21 hours within the major cannot be used to count toward any other majoror minor. For a minor offered through Peabody College, at least 15 hours need to be unique to that minor. Studentsin the School of Engineering may use courses taken in Peabody College for relevant second majors even if thosecourses also fulfill a School of Engineering degree requirement.Class Standing (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: The Administrative Committee determines how many semesters will be allowed for each part-timestudent to attain sophomore, junior, or senior standing. Page 82 of 1019 
The internal record of a student dropped from the university under these regulations shows the notation “Failed toqualify for class standing.” Sophomore Standing A student qualifies for sophomore standing upon completion of 24 credit hours of work with a grade point average ofat least 1.800, completion of two regular semesters (fall or spring), and completion of the first-year writingrequirement: successful completion of English 1100 if required and successful completion of a First-Year WritingSeminar (numbered 1111 in various disciplines). First-year students who fail to qualify for sophomore standing intwo semesters are placed on probation and must have the permission of the Administrative Committee to registerfor a third semester. The third semester must be the summer semester at Vanderbilt. Normally, students who donot qualify for sophomore standing during this third semester are dropped from the university. Junior Standing A student qualifies for junior standing upon completion of 54 credit hours of work with a grade point average of1.900, completion of four regular semesters (fall or spring), and completion of a W course at any level (other thanENGL 1100 or a First-Year Writing Seminar). Sophomores who fail to qualify for junior standing within two semestersafter qualifying for sophomore standing are placed on probation and must have the permission of the AdministrativeCommittee to register for another semester. This additional semester must be the summer semester at Vanderbilt.Normally, students who do not qualify for junior standing in this additional semester are dropped from theuniversity. Senior Standing A student qualifies for senior standing upon completion of 84 credit hours of work with a grade point average of2.000 and completion of six regular semesters (fall or spring). Juniors who fail to qualify for senior standing withintwo semesters after qualifying for junior standing are placed on probation and must have the permission of theAdministrative Committee to register for another semester. This additional semester must be the summer semesterat Vanderbilt. Normally, students who do not qualify for senior standing in this additional semester are droppedfrom the university. Seniors who fail to maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.000 are placed on probation and must have thepermission of the Administrative Committee to register for another semester. Blair: To qualify for sophomore standing, a student must complete a minimum of 24 hours with a grade pointaverage of 1.8 and have completed two regular semesters. To qualify for junior standing, a student must complete a minimum of 54 hours with a grade point average of 1.9,must complete MUTH 2200 and MUTH 2220, and must have completed four regular semesters. To qualify for senior standing, a student must complete a minimum of 86 hours with a grade point average of 2.0and have completed six regular semesters. Engineering: School of Engineering students are promoted on the basis of cumulative GPA, hours earned, andregular semesters in residence. For the purposes of promotion, a regular semester is defined as any fall or springPage 83 of 1019 