The last day before and the first day after official holidays are considered to be the same as any other day on whichclasses are scheduled. Assignments are made for classes scheduled on these days, and tests may be given in them.Students should take this fact into account in making travel plans. The faculty of the College of Arts and Science recognizes that occasions arise during the academic year that meritthe excused absence of a student from a scheduled class or laboratory during which an examination, quiz, or othergraded exercise is given. Examples include participation in sponsored university activities (e.g., debate team,varsity sports), observance of officially designated religious holidays, serious personal problems (e.g., seriousillness, death of a member of the student’s family), and matters relating to the student’s academic training (e.g.,graduate or professional school interviews). While determination of the merit of a case is left primarily to thediscretion of the individual instructor, conflicts arising from personal travel plans or social obligations do not qualifyas excused absences. The Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education does not grant excused absences for students.For more information please visit as.vanderbilt.edu/academics/policies/absences.php. The primary determination of whether a student’s absence from class occurs for a reason that warrantsrescheduling a graded exercise for that student is left to the judgment of the individual instructor. A standard ofreasonableness should apply in making such judgments. Except in cases of true emergency, student petitions for making up missed graded exercises must be made prior tothe missed class, preferably at the beginning of the semester or at the earliest time thereafter when the need to beabsent is known to the student. Faculty members retain discretion in the form and timing of makeup exercises or indevising other strategies for accommodating students. The faculty of the College of Arts and Science authorizes the Office of the Dean to resolve through arbitration anycases that cannot be directly resolved between students and their instructors. Blair: Students are expected to attend all sessions of each class in which they are enrolled. Attendance is usually afactor in determining the final grade in a course. A student who fails to abide by the attendance policy set by thecourse instructor is subject to removal from the course. The last day before and the first day after official holidaysare considered to be the same as any other day on which classes are scheduled. Assignments are made for classesscheduled on these days, and tests may be given in them. Students should take this fact into account in makingtravel plans. Engineering: Students are expected to attend all scheduled meetings of each class in which they are enrolled. Atthe beginning of each semester, instructors will explain the policy regarding absences in each of their classes.Students having excessive absences will be reported to the Office of the Dean. Class attendance may be a factor indetermining the final grade in a course. Peabody: Students are expected to attend all scheduled meetings of classes in which they are enrolled; they havean obligation to contribute to the academic performance of all students by full participation in the work of eachclass. At the beginning of the semester, instructors explain the policy regarding absences in each of their classes,and thereafter they report to the office of the dean of the college the name of any student whose achievement in acourse is being adversely affected by excessive absences. In such cases, the dean, in consultation with theinstructor, takes appropriate action, which may include dropping the student from the class; students dropped afterthe deadline for withdrawal receive the grade F. Class attendance may be specified as a factor in determining thefinal grade in a course, and it cannot fail to influence the grade even when it is not considered explicitly.Classroom Recording Policy (A&S, Blair)Arts & Science/Blair: The use of technologies for audio and video recording of lectures and other classroomactivities is allowed only with the express permission of the instructor. In cases where recordings are allowed, suchcontent is restricted to personal use only unless permission is expressly granted in writing by the instructor and byPage 57 of 1019 