hearing committee. The student must notify the recital hearing committee, in writing, of the hearing date, recitaldate, time, and place. Senior composition recitals are screened in advance at the department level. For a required junior or senior recital, the repertoire will normally encompass three major style periods, asappropriate to the medium; at least one work in a contemporary idiom will be included in either the junior or seniorrecital. For teacher education students, a conducting component must be included on the required senior recital. Forjazz studies students, an original composition or arrangement must be included on the required senior recital. Arequired senior recital must also include written or spoken program notes, visual media, or other audienceengagement component, with the approval of the studio instructor. The hearing committee should hear all of therecital repertoire. Grading of the hearing is on a Pass/Fail basis, with written faculty comments. If a student fails thehearing, another must be scheduled. Only two recital hearings in one semester are permitted. For students also choosing the senior recital to fulfill Immersion Vanderbilt, the recital program and audienceengagement component should be a deeper, more intensive project that integrates classroom knowledge withexperience. The student will work with the project’s primary Immersion adviser (usually the studio teacher) todevelop a plan relevant to the student’s recital. While there are no specific requirements, examples may be found inthe Blair Student Handbook. The student’s Immersion adviser will ultimately decide if the plan fulfills the ImmersionVanderbilt project.Recital and Recital Committee (Blair)Blair: For recitals given for credit, the recital committee is the same as the hearing committee whenever possible.The final grade is a composite of those of at least two committee members, including the studio instructor, with thestudio instructor’s grade valued at two thirds of the total. Copies of committee member’s grades are kept by theinstructor. Recitals not given for credit are not graded; they involve a hearing committee but not a recitalcommittee.Recital Attendance (Blair)Blair: Each semester in residence, students (except graduating seniors in their penultimate or final semester) arerequired to register for MUSO 1000 and attend weekly student recitals/convocations and a minimum of six Blairfaculty or professional concerts or their community equivalents as described on the syllabus. Students must fulfillboth aspects of the requirement to pass each semester. The course receives zero credit hours but is graded on aPass/Fail basis and listed on students’ transcripts. A temporary final grade will not be granted except in the case ofdocumented medical emergency. Students must register their attendance at each recital. Two absences from Friday afternoon recitals are permittedeach semester. Under extraordinary circumstances, make-up assignments can be obtained from the recitalattendance coordinator with the permission of the associate dean. Students must plan and keep up with theirconcert attendance. Except for weekly student recitals, performances in which students are participants do not fulfillthe attendance requirement for the performer. Deadline for completion of all work is listed on the course syllabus forMUSO 1000. The first failure would result in the loss of the senior penultimate or final semester exemption.Additional failure(s) would require students to enroll for additional semester(s) until the seven required semestersare passed.Extracurricular Performance (Blair)Blair: Students must be in good standing and have the consent of their private instructors in order to participate inany extracurricular performance activities, including in-school collaboration, that are not required by a student’sdegree program or honor scholarship.College of Arts and ScienceCollege of Arts and Science Administration and FacultyTimothy P. McNamaraGinny and Conner Searcy Dean of the College of Arts and SciencePage 97 of 1019 
 Bonnie J. DowVice Dean and Senior Associate Dean of Faculty Affairs John McLeanSenior Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education Allison SchachterSenior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Elizabeth Meadows, Assistant Dean and Director of Undergraduate Education Pavneet Aulakh, Assistant Dean Alissa Hare, Assistant Dean Mario Rewers, Assistant Dean Angela Sutton, Assistant Dean of Graduate Education and Academic Initiatives Paul Stob, Director of A&S College Core Elizabeth Catania, Associate Director of A&S College Core  Josh Brewer, Chief Business OfficerHollis Calhoun, Chief Communications Officer Angela Land-Dedrick, Chief Operations Officer Rosters for the following Arts and Science committees are available at as.vanderbilt.edu/faculty/committees.php. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEEADMISSIONS COMMITTEECOMMITTEE ON ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND PROCEDURESCOMMITTEE ON EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMSCOMMITTEE ON GRADUATE EDUCATIONCOMMITTEE ON HEALTH RELATED PROFESSIONSCOMMITTEE ON INDIVIDUAL PROGRAMSCOMMITTEE ON UNDERGRADUATE INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIESCURRICULUM COMMITTEESECOND LANGUAGE STUDY COMMITTEESTUDENT-FACULTY RELATIONS COMMITTEEPage 98 of 1019 