the American Historical Association, and the Biophysical Society. The quality of the College’s faculty is matched by that of its diverse student body. Undergraduates come from thefifty states and fifteen to twenty foreign countries and are almost evenly divided between men and women. Academic SupportThe Writing Studio / Tutoring ServicesThe Writing Studio provides undergraduate students the opportunity to meet with trained writing consultants todiscuss individual writing concerns, from invention to drafting to revision. The Writing Studio provides a space forstudents to discuss work-in-progress with expert writers, to create their own writing, and to utilize availableresources for improving both writing and critical thinking skills. The mission of the Vanderbilt Writing Studio is to enhance student writing and writing instruction, and to encourageregular conversation about the writing process. The Writing Studio’s extensive programming includes individualconsultations, creative writing groups, workshops focused on specific issues in academic writing, open- mikereadings, and student-run writers’ support groups. The Writing Studio is located at 1801 Edgehill Avenue, Suite 112, and there is a satellite location in 217 CommonsCenter convenient to the first-year residence halls. The Writing Studio website can be accessed at One-on-one tutoring in many subjects is available through Tutoring Services, also located at 1801 Edgehill Avenue.Consultations in the Writing Studio and in Tutoring Services are free to all undergraduates. ComputersThe following locations are available for walk-in use of computers and software: Center for Second Language Studies (Furman Hall 001)Stevenson computer lab and lounge (Stevenson Center 2200)Wilson computer lab (Wilson Hall 120) All of the college’s computer labs and classrooms offer a wide variety of “courseware” and commercial “productivitysoftware,” including word processing packages. Color printing and scanners are available in most of the labs. Inaddition to accessing software on the local servers, students may also connect to both campus services and theinternet, including VUGmail and e-resources in the libraries, as well as course materials in Brightspace. While use ofthe above facilities is free, printing is charged per page. The computer classrooms in the Center for Second Language Studies and Wilson Hall are available for walk-in useduring the late afternoon and evening hours. Stevenson Center lab and lounge are card-accessible weeknights until1:00a.m. All lab hours are posted by semester at In addition to the college facilities, a few “kiosk” systems are availablein the Sarratt Student Center. As a result, access to computers in the College of Arts and Science is extensive. Page 100 of 1019 