 Transfer students must complete at least 60 hours of work at Vanderbilt. Two of the four semesters in residencemust be the last two semesters of the student’s degree program. Peabody students who wish to take course work during the summer, or during an academic-year semester, at aregionally accredited two-year or four-year college or university and transfer up to 12 hours to Vanderbilt must be ingood standing with at least a C average. Prior approval must be granted for all courses to be taken elsewhere. If thecourses are to be taken during the academic year, the student must take a personal leave explicitly approved forthis purpose by the Peabody Dean’s Office. Students on leave for other reasons (e.g., medical or other personalreasons) cannot take course work elsewhere for transfer credit without prior permission. Course work transferred toVanderbilt from another institution will not carry with it a grade point average. Requests to participate in non-Vanderbilt-approved overseas programs for transfer credit will be approved onlyunder exceptional circumstances in which the proposed program represents a truly unique and unusual educationalopportunity. To apply for approval, the student should complete the transfer of credit application and apply for aleave of absence for the relevant semester. The student must be in good standing with at least a 2.700 grade pointaverage as of the date of application, and approval must be granted in advance of the study overseas. Petitions forleaves of this type must be filed at least one month before the close of the preceding semester, and final approvalof such petitions always rests with the dean’s office. It should be noted, however, that if a program has beenapproved by Vanderbilt, students must enroll in the program via the Global Education Office. In no case, aftermatriculating at Vanderbilt, may a student apply to participate in an approved program for transfer credit through adifferent university, or through an external agency, and then seek to transfer that credit into Vanderbilt. Students enrolled full time (i.e., carrying at least 12 credit hours) during a regular (fall or spring) semester areassumed to be engaged in full-time study at Vanderbilt. Such students are not permitted to take additional coursework elsewhere, for transfer credit, during the semester. This includes online courses, as well as courses offered bynearby institutions.Summer or Winter Work at Another Institution (A&S)Arts & Science: Students enrolled in the College of Arts and Science may receive transfer credit for a maximum oftwo courses taken during summer or winter at a regionally-accredited institution. To qualify for such credit, thestudent must be in good academic standing and must obtain prior authorization from the appropriate departmentby submitting courses through the Transfer Credit Submission application in YES. A detailed course syllabus isrequired in order for a course to be evaluated. Such courses cannot fulfill AXLE requirements, count as part of thelast 30 credit hours in residence, duplicate a course taken previously, or be taken on a Pass/Fail or similar basis.Students cannot transfer credit for summer or winter work from outside of the country of their permanent homeaddress.Credit by Examination (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: In certain circumstances, students may be awarded course credit by departmental examination.(This procedure is distinct from the award of credit through the College Board Advanced Placement Tests taken priorto the student’s first enrollment.) Students who wish to earn credit by departmental examination should consult the Dean’s Office of UndergraduateEducation in Arts and Science concerning procedures. To be eligible, students must be carrying a minimum of 12credit hours and be in good standing. Students must obtain the approval of the chair of the department that is to give the examination and the instructordesignated by the chair. Students may earn up to 18 hours of credit by any combination of credit through advancedplacement examinations and credit by departmental examination. Students may earn up to 8 hours of credit byexamination in any one department. Students may attempt to obtain credit by examination no more than twice inone semester, no more than once in one course in one semester, and no more than twice in one course. Studentsmay not repeat a course for grade replacement under the credit by examination procedures. Credits earned byPage 77 of 1019 
credit by examination may not be counted toward AXLE. Credit hours and grade are awarded on the basis of the grade earned on the examination, subject to the policy ofthe department awarding credit. Students have the option of refusing to accept the credit hours and grade afterlearning the results of the examination. Students enrolled for at least 12 credit hours are not charged extra tuition for hours earned through credit byexamination, so long as the amount of credit falls within the allowable limits of an 18-hour tuition load, including no-credit courses and courses dropped after the Change Period. Students in this category must pay a $50 fee for thecost of constructing, administering, and grading the examination. Since this cost has already been incurred,students who refuse the credit hours and grade are charged the $50 fee nevertheless. Full-time students with a tuition load exceeding 18 credit hours and students taking fewer than 12 credit hours paytuition at the regular rate with no additional fee. Blair: In certain circumstances, students may be awarded course credit (a maximum of 8 hours) by departmentalexamination. This procedure is distinct from the awarding of credit through the College Board Advanced PlacementTests or the International Baccalaureate. Students apply for credit by examination through the Blair Office ofAcademic Services. To earn credit by departmental examination, students must be enrolled for at least 12 hours, be in good standing,be recommended by their advisers, and have the approval of the appropriate department. In addition, studentsmust seek prior approval of their study plan through the associate dean’s office. Students may attempt to earncredit by examination in no more than two courses in one semester, only once in any course in one semester, andno more than twice in the same course. Credit hours and grade are awarded on the basis of the grade earned on the examination, subject to the policy ofthe department awarding credit. Students have the option of refusing to accept the credit hours and grade afterlearning the results of the examination. Students enrolled for at least 12 hours are not charged extra tuition for hours earned through credit by examination,so long as the amount of credit falls within the allowable limits of an 18-hour tuition load, including no-credit coursesand courses dropped after the change period. Students in this category must pay a $50 fee for the cost ofconstructing, administering, and grading the examination. Since this cost has already been incurred, students whorefuse the credit hours and grade are charged the $50 fee nevertheless. Full-time students with a tuition loadexceeding 18 hours and students taking fewer than 12 hours pay tuition at the regular rate, per credit hour, with noadditional fee. Engineering: In certain circumstances students may be awarded course credit by departmental examination. (Thisprocedure is distinct from the award of credit through the College Board Advanced Placement or InternationalBaccalaureate Examinations, taken prior to a student’s first enrollment at Vanderbilt or another college.) Students who want to earn credit by departmental examination should consult the associate dean concerningprocedures. To be eligible, students must be in good standing. Students must obtain the approval of the chair of the department that is to give the examination and of theinstructor designated by the chair. Students may earn up to 8 hours of credit by examination in any onedepartment, although this limitation might be raised on approval of the Administrative Committee. Students mayPage 78 of 1019 