Spanish A: Literature (Higher)6 or 7SPAN 3302: Spanish for Oral Communication3Spanish B (Higher)6 or 7SPAN No Equivalent Visual Arts (Higher)6 or 7ARTS No Equivalent: Visual Arts3  ARTS No Equivalent: Visual Arts3 Pre-College Summer School ProgramUpon completion of the sophomore or junior year in high school, students may enroll, at the freshman level, forregular work in the Vanderbilt summer session. The following conditions must be met: (a) students must be in the upper 25 percent of their high school class and berecommended by their principal or counselor; (b) courses taken in the Vanderbilt summer session must be chosenby the student in consultation with his or her high school counselor and the director of the Division of UnclassifiedStudies so as to supplement and not overlap the total high school program. A student may take two courses in anyone summer, or three courses by special authorization of the director of the Division of Unclassified Studies. Course work done at Vanderbilt by a pre-college student may count toward the high school diploma and as part ofthe entrance requirements for regular admission to Vanderbilt. All course work done at Vanderbilt by pre-collegestudents will be credited toward the degree for those who may subsequently matriculate at Vanderbilt, unless thecourse work is required for high school graduation. Admission to the pre-college summer school program does notadmit a student as a regular entering freshman, nor does it commit the university to a student’s admission. Credit for Previous College WorkEntering first-year students who have taken college work in high school through dual enrollment or concurrentenrollment programs, or during summers prior to their offer of admission to Vanderbilt, must indicate such work onthe undergraduate admission application. An official transcript showing any prior college work must be provided.Once all required documentation has been received, the coursework will be reviewed to determine whether it iseligible for credit at Vanderbilt. Students should submit all required documentation for review before the first day of classes of their freshman year. Credit will be awarded only if:1. A course is regularly offered by an accredited two-year or four-year college or university. For domesticschools, the school must be regionally accredited; for international schools, the school must have country-specific accreditation.2. The teacher was a regular faculty member of that college or university.3. A majority of the students in the course were degree-seeking college students.Additional requirements and guidelines regarding pre-freshman credit are availableat registrar.vanderbilt.edu/transfer-credit.php. The College of Arts and Science and Peabody College usually do not award credit for work at other colleges in thesummer immediately preceding the student’s first semester at Vanderbilt. Summer work elsewhere will be acceptedfor credit only if an unusual educational opportunity can be demonstrated and if the courses sought are as rigorousas courses offered at Vanderbilt. Approval for work to be taken elsewhere must be obtained in advance from theappropriate dean. Page 41 of 1019 