Grade Appeals (PBDY)Peabody: A student who believes they have received an inappropriate final grade in a class can appeal that gradeif they believe the grade is inappropriate for at least one of the following reasons:1. The student is held to different standards than other students in the course.2. The instructor in determining the final grade applied standards that departed from those outlined in thecourse syllabus.3. The student believes that there is a clerical error in the calculation or reporting of the grade.4. The instructor did not adequately consider the student’s needs for officially sanctioned and communicatedaccommodations.Ultimately, the grade can be appealed following the academic appeals process outlined for more general academicmatters, directly above. However, several steps to attempt to resolve the grade should be taken, in turn, before anappeal is submitted to the Undergraduate Administrative Committee (UAC). First, students and instructors are encouraged to resolve grade disputes informally. If an informal process fails, thestudent may formally appeal a final course grade by contacting the instructor in writing within ten (10) businessdays after the start of the following semester. The student’s written appeal must include the grounds for the appeal(see conditions 1 through 4 listed above), the change in grade that is being requested, and evidence to support thestudent’s case for a grade change. The instructor must inform the student of his/her decision in writing. Second, if the student does not feel the matter has been resolved satisfactorily with the instructor, the student maypetition the director of undergraduate studies in the department where the course is housed. The petition forreviewing the appeal must include the original written appeal, the instructor’s written response, and the reason whythe student is dissatisfied with the instructor’s decision. The DUS will review the materials and assess the merits ofthe case. If the DUS finds no basis for the grievance, the petition will be dismissed and the student will be notified inwriting. If the DUS determines that the grievance has merit, the DUS will work with the parties to seek a resolution. Ifthe DUS is the course instructor, the student may directly petition the department chair in which the course ishoused. Third, if the case is dismissed by the DUS, and the student does not agree with the grounds for the decision, thestudent may petition the chair of the department where the course is housed. The student is responsible forproviding the department chair with relevant case documentation, including the original written appeal, the writtenresponses of both the instructor and the DUS, and an explanation as to why the student is dissatisfied with the DUS’sdecision to dismiss the case. The department chair will decide the merits of the case and provide writtendocumentation to all parties as to the decision. If the case is determined to have merit, the department chair willseek a resolution among the parties involved, including the student, the instructor, and the DUS. If the departmentchair is the course instructor, the student may appeal the DUS’s decision directly to the UndergraduateAdministrative Committee using the more general academic appeals process outlined in the previous Appealssection. Fourth, if the case is dismissed by the department chair and the student does not agree with the grounds for thedecision, the student may appeal the department chair’s decision to the Undergraduate Administrative Committeeusing the more general academic appeals process outlined in the previous Appeals section.Mid-Semester Progress Reports (A&S)Arts & Science: At the end of the seventh week of each semester, instructors assess the progress of all students intheir classes and report those whose work at that point is deficient or whose work is being harmed by excessiveabsences. Grades to be reported are C–, D+, D, D–, F, and I (for incomplete, meaning that some work due by thatpoint has not been submitted). Instructors may combine with one of these grades or assign separately a notation ofexcessive absences from a class. Reports of these deficiencies are posted in the Academic Record application inYES. Grades given at mid-semester do not become part of the permanent record but are intended to warn studentsabout performance judged unsatisfactory.Deficiency Notices (Blair)Page 74 of 1019 