to students in their last two semesters, showing total credit hours, grade point average, and degree requirementsstill to be met. Students should examine their Degree Audit carefully and discuss it with their advisers. Any errorsshould be reported immediately to the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education. A grade reported and recorded inthe Office of the University Registrar may be changed only upon request of the instructor with the approval of theAdministrative Committee. The committee will approve such a change only on certification that the original reportwas in error. Blair: Grade reports and faculty critiques of performance examinations will be provided to students as soon aspossible at the end of each semester. Grades are available online in the Academic Record, which is housed withinYES (Your Enrollment Services) at yes.vanderbilt.edu. Occasionally, student academic information may be sharedwith appropriate faculty committees for purposes of promotion and tenure review. A grade reported and recorded in the Office of the University Registrar may be changed only upon written request ofthe instructor, on certification that the original report was in error, with approval of the associate dean. Engineering: A grade report will be available to the student on Academic Record in YES as soon as possible afterthe conclusion of each semester. This report will give the total hours and grade points earned during the semester,as well as the cumulative hours and grade points earned through that semester. Students should examine thesereports carefully and discuss them with their faculty advisers. Any errors should be reported immediately to theOffice of Academic Services of the School of Engineering. A grade reported and recorded in the Office of the University Registrar may be changed only upon written request ofthe instructor and with approval of the Administrative Committee. The committee will approve such a change onlyon certification that the original report was in error.Grade Point Average (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: A student’s grade point average is obtained by dividing the quality points earned by the credithours for which the student has registered, excluding courses taken for no credit, those from which the student hasofficially withdrawn (see Withdrawal Period under Registration above), and those completed with the grade P. In no case is the grade point average affected by transfer credit. No course at another institution in which a gradebelow C– was received, or which was taken on a Pass/Fail basis, is credited toward the degrees awarded by theCollege of Arts and Science. Blair: A student’s grade point average is obtained by dividing the total grade points earned by the number of hoursfor which the student registered, excluding courses audited or taken for no credit, those from which the student haswithdrawn or for which an incomplete grade (I or M) has been authorized, and those with the grade Pass. Engineering: A student’s grade point average is obtained by dividing the total grade points earned by the numberof hours for which the student registered, excluding courses taken for no credit, those from which the student haswithdrawn, those with the temporary grade of I or M, those taken in a study abroad program, and those that arecompleted with the grade Pass. Peabody: A student’s grade point average is obtained by dividing the grade points earned by the hours for whichthe student has registered, excluding courses taken for no credit, those from which the student has withdrawn, andthose that are completed with the grade P.Defined Grades with Corresponding Grade Points per Credit Hour (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science:Page 72 of 1019 