attempt to obtain credit by examination no more than twice in one semester, no more than once in one course inone semester, and no more than twice in one course. Credit hours and grade are awarded on the basis of the grade earned on the examination, subject to the policy ofthe department awarding credit. Students have the option of refusing to accept the credit hours and grade afterlearning the results of the examination. Students enrolled for at least 12 hours are not charged tuition for hours for which credit by examination is awarded,so long as the amount of credit falls within the allowable limits of an 18-hour tuition load, including no- credit coursesdropped after the change period of registration. Students in this category must pay a fee of $50 for the cost ofadministering the examination. Peabody: In certain circumstances students may be awarded course credit by departmental examination. (Thisprocedure is distinct from the award of credit through the College Board Advanced Placement Tests taken prior to astudent’s first enrollment.). Students wanting to earn credit by departmental examination should consult thePeabody Office of Academic Services concerning procedures. To be eligible, students must be carrying a minimumof 12 hours and be in good standing. Students must obtain the approval of the chair of the department that is to give the examination and the instructordesignated by the chair. Students may earn up to 8 hours of credit by examination in any one department. Studentsmay attempt to obtain credit by examination no more than twice in one semester and no more than twice in onecourse. Students may not repeat a course for grade replacement under the credit by examination procedures. Credit hours and grade are awarded on the basis of the grade earned on the examination, subject to the policy ofthe department awarding credit. Students have the option of refusing to accept the credit hours and grade afterlearning the results of the examination. Students enrolled for at least 12 hours are not charged extra tuition for hours earned through credit by examination,so long as the amount of credit falls within the allowable limits of an 18-hour tuition load, including no- credit coursesand courses dropped after the change period. Students in this category must pay a $50 fee for the cost ofconstructing, administering, and grading the examination. Since this cost has already been incurred, students whorefuse the credit hours and grade are charged the $50 fee nevertheless. Full-time students with a tuition load exceeding 18 hours and students taking fewer than 12 hours pay tuition at thehourly tuition rate.Degree Progression & Class StandingRequirements for the Degree (VUSE)Grade Point Average Requirements (VUSE)Graduation Requirements (Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Scholarship Student Requirements (Blair, VUSE)Liberal Education Core Guidelines (PBDY)Progress Evaluation (PBDY)Writing Portfolio (Blair)Degree Audit Reports (Blair)Page 79 of 1019 