lectureship gratefully recognizes Professor Curry’s devoted service and lasting contributions to the university. THE WAITE PHILIP FISHEL LECTURE. Established in 1974 as a tribute to Professor Fishel, who was known as anoutstanding, popular teacher and was renowned for his research in metallurgy. Through the generosity of family,colleagues, students, and friends, the lecture is presented by a leading inorganic chemist. THE HARRY C. HOWARD JR. LECTURESHIP. Established in 1994 at the Robert Penn Warren Center for the Humanitiesin honor of Harry C. Howard Jr. (B.A. 1951). The lectureship was endowed by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Nash Jr. and Mr.and Mrs. George Renfro, all of Asheville, North Carolina, in honor of their longtime friend and attorney. Thelectureship allows the Warren Center to bring an outstanding scholar to Vanderbilt annually to deliver a lecture on asignificant topic in the humanities. THE ARTHUR WILLIAM INGERSOLL MEMORIAL LECTURE. Established in 1973 to honor Arthur Ingersoll, professor oforganic chemistry at Vanderbilt until his death in 1969. Each year contributions for this lecture are received fromfamily, colleagues, students, and friends. A leading organic chemist is invited to present the lecture. THE CARL K. SEYFERT LECTURE IN ASTRONOMY. Established in 1983 as part of the astronomy program’scommemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the Arthur J. Dyer Observatory. The lectureship recognizes theuntiring efforts and contributions to astronomy made by Carl K. Seyfert, professor of astronomy and first director ofthe Dyer Observatory. A distinguished astronomer is invited to present this lecture every third year. THE SHANKS LECTURES. Established in 1984 and named for E. Baylis Shanks and Olivia H. Shanks in honor of theiraccomplishments in the fields of mathematics and education and in recognition of their loyalty and service toVanderbilt University, these lectures are presented on two successive days in the fall of each year. A specialcommittee from the Department of Mathematics, influenced by the professional interests of Professor and Mrs.Shanks, chooses the lecturers from mathematicians of the highest reputation. The topics of the lectureship varyfrom year to year according to the area of specialization of the speaker chosen. The lectures have been endowed bymembers of the family of Olivia and Baylis Shanks. THE FRANCIS G. SLACK LECTURES IN PHYSICS. Established in 1977 by the Department of Physics and Astronomy inhonor of Francis G. Slack, former Landon C. Garland professor of physics and chair of the department, these lecturesrecognize his many contributions to physics. The series was first partially endowed by his colleagues and studentsand then with the generous help of Professor Slack. Each speaker gives one lecture of general interest to theuniversity and one more specialized lecture for the department. THE DAVID STEINE LECTURE. Established in 1978 as a memorial to David Steine, professor of businessadministration in the Department of Economics and Business Administration, by members of his family, friends, andassociates. The lecture is devoted to an economic problem of interest to the general public. THE GERTRUDE VANDERBILT AND HAROLD S. VANDERBILT VISITING WRITERS PROGRAM. Established in theDepartment ofEnglish in 1958 under the generous sponsorship of the late Mrs. Vanderbilt, this program has annually presentedreadings and public lectures by a poet, a novelist, and a critic—each of whom also visits classes and meetsinformally with members of the university and Nashville communities. Recent participants have included DannieAbse, Madison Smartt Bell, Ellen Gilchrist, Alison Lurie, Czeslaw Milosz, Wyatt Prunty, Ann Thwaite, AnthonyThwaite, and Helen Vendler.Degree Programs in the CollegeThe Bachelor of ArtsPage 102 of 1019 