Screening I (Formal Admission to an Undergraduate Teacher Education Program)Screening II (Admission to Student Teaching)Student TeachingApplication for Teacher Licensure and University Recommendation for LicensureAccreditation  Peabody offers programs leading to teacher licensure in the following areas: elementary (grades K–5), andsecondary education (grades 6–12) with endorsement in English, math, biology, chemistry, physics, earth science,history, and political science. (Added endorsements are available also in economics, psychology, and sociology forthose who will have a history endorsement.) An added endorsement program also is available in English as a SecondLanguage (grades PreK–12). All of these programs are offered by the Department of Teaching and Learning. Special education–interventionist (LD/BD for grades K–8 or 6–12) or comprehensive (multiple/severe for grades K–12) are offered by the Department of Special Education. Vanderbilt’s Blair School of Music and Peabody College offer a program for students interested in teacher licensurewith endorsement in the following: (1) instrumental/general music (grades K–12), or (2) vocal/general music (gradesK–12). Blair students complete the first part of the program as part of the bachelor of music degree and apply duringthe senior year to continue into the master of education degree for a final year of professional education. Students seeking licensure may enroll in Peabody College, the College of Arts and Science, or the Blair School ofMusic. In all cases, most of the liberal arts course work is taken in the College of Arts and Science, and theprofessional education course work is taken at Peabody College. All students completing a teacher education program at Vanderbilt are strongly advised to apply for a license inTennessee whether or not they plan to teach in this state. In addition, licensure is available by application in otherstates. The student is responsible for applying for Tennessee licensure through the Office of Teacher Licensure. Eachstate has its own application forms and procedures for licensure; information is available on the Office of TeacherLicensure website: peabody.vanderbilt.edu/teacher-licensure/.  Licensure requirements continue to undergo revision. Students must meet licensure requirements in effect at thetime of their program completion, which may be different from requirements in effect at the time they entered theprogram. Each year, teacher education students should consult the current Vanderbilt Undergraduate Catalog or thePeabody Undergraduate Handbook. The website peabody.vanderbilt.edu/teacher-licensure/ provides additionalinformation.Security ClearanceAs part of the Peabody background check process you are required to pass a fingerprint criminal background checkby the beginning of your first semester. Visit https://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/criminal-background-clearance fordetailed information.Degree AuditsElectronic degree audits enable students and faculty advisers to track each student’s progress in the degreeprogram at Peabody. The departmental handbooks describe access to and use of online Peabody major degreeaudits to view program requirements recognized as “met” or “unmet” at any time in the student’s program. Thedegree audit also denotes permissions for waivers or course substitutions. Degree audits are managed in thePeabody Office of Academic Services.Page 244 of 1019 