Brochures on all approved programs are available in the Global Education Office in Room 115, Student Life Center.GEO also maintains a website, vanderbilt.edu/geo. The study abroad programs are described in more detail in theSpecial Programs for Undergraduates section of this catalog. When choosing programs in a city for study abroad, College of Arts and Science students may only apply to theVanderbilt-approved overseas program(s). The College only accepts credit from international schools and programsthat have been approved by Vanderbilt faculty, and for which the University has a contract or agreement. Pre-Professional StudiesMedicineStudents interested in the study of medicine should plan their undergraduate programs in consultation with Dr.Michelle Grundy, health professions adviser. There is no formal premedical program of courses in the College of Artsand Science or elsewhere at Vanderbilt. Each student should plan a program to meet individual needs. The programshould include whatever courses may be necessary to meet medical school admission requirements, all coursesrequired for the major, all AXLE requirements, and elective options. Students may choose majors from any of thefour undergraduate colleges, and may elect to pursue a double major or an interdisciplinary program ofconcentration. A student who plans to apply for admission to the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, as well as other medicalschools, may choose either of the following options: 1. A student may qualify for admission with a B.A. degree, whether completed in three years or in four. Minimumrequirements for admission generally would be met by completing at least two semesters of English, four semestersof chemistry including organic, two semesters of biology, two semesters of physics, and at least one semester ofcalculus/math. Since prerequisites may vary across medical schools, students are urged to consult the onlineresource, Medical School Admission Requirements (MSAR) published by the American Association of Medical Schools(at aamc.org) for school-specific information. In light of the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) changes that took effect in 2015, it is recommended thatstudents take one semester of biochemistry and one semester of introductory statistics. Additionally, through coursework or self-directed study, students will need to be knowledgeable in basic concepts of psychology, sociology, andbioethics. For more information, students are advised to visit the website of the Health Professions Advisory Office(vanderbilt.edu/hpao) and refer to the links for 1) “Premedical Preparation” and 2) “Threading a path throughpremedical expectations.” 2. A student may qualify as a three-year student in the senior-in-absentia program (see Senior-in-Absentia in thiscatalog). DentistryStudents interested in predental studies should plan their undergraduate program in consultation with Dr. MichelleGrundy, health professions adviser. There is no formal predental program of courses at Vanderbilt. Predental studiesshould include courses necessary to meet dental school admission requirements, all courses required for the major,all AXLE requirements, and elective options. Students may choose majors from any of the four undergraduatecolleges. They may also elect a double major or an interdisciplinary program of concentration. A student may applyPage 115 of 1019 