 Both majors are indicated on the student’s transcript. Only one degree is awarded, from the school in which thestudent is enrolled.MinorsA minor consists of at least five courses of at least 3 credit hours each within a recognized area of knowledge. Aminor offers students more than a casual introduction to an area, but less than a major. A minor is not a degreerequirement, but students may elect to complete one or more. Courses may not be taken on a Pass/Fail basis. Aminor for which all designated courses are completed with a grade point average of at least 2.000 will be entered onthe transcript at the time of graduation. When a minor is offered in a discipline that offers a major, only those courses that count toward the major may becounted toward the minor. Students should refer to the appropriate sections of this catalog for specificrequirements. Minors are offered in engineering management, materials science and engineering, computerscience, data science, digital fabrication, electrical and computer engineering, energy and environmental systems,environmental engi​neering, nanoscience and nanotechnology, quantum information science and engineering,scientific computing, and most disciplines of the College of Arts and Science, Blair School of Music, and PeabodyCollege. Students declare their intention to pursue a minor by completing the online Major/Minor Declaration/Changeworkflow process found here: https://registrar.vanderbilt.edu/registration/forms.php. Departments and programsusually assign advisers to students who declare minors in their areas. Students are responsible for knowing andsatisfying all requirements for the minors they intend to complete.Focus AreasFocus areas provide guidance to students wishing to concentrate on a specialized topic within engineering. Focusareas are typically nine credit hours, and qualifying courses are listed in the catalog. Students can declare amaximum of three focus areas; however, a qualifying course cannot be applied to more than one focus area.Students interested in declaring a focus area must do so before the start of their final semester at Vanderbilt.Successful completion of a declared focus area will be designated on a student's transcript upon graduation.The School of Engineering offers the following focus areas:Human Computer InteractionMicroelectronicsNanotechnologyStrategic and Technical ConsultingEngineering CommunicationsTechnology EntrepreneurshipProduct DevelopmentDual Degree Program with Fisk UniversityA coordinated dual degree program between the Vanderbilt University School of Engineering and Fisk University isespecially designed to permit students to obtain an A.B. degree in biology, chemistry, computer science, physics, ormathematics from Fisk and a B.E. degree in engineering from Vanderbilt, generally within five years. For the first three years, the student is enrolled at Fisk in a science or mathematics curriculum and, by cross-registration in the second and third years, takes introductory engineering courses at Vanderbilt. During the fourthand fifth years, the student is enrolled at Vanderbilt, following principally an engineering curriculum at Vanderbiltand completing necessary courses at Fisk. At the end of five years, the student should be able to satisfy therequirements for both bachelor’s degrees. Financial aid is available for qualified, deserving students. Additional information is available from the director ofPage 179 of 1019 