Designing Area of FocusIn-depth Earth and Environmental Sciences courses can be chosen to define a focus area within EES. Studentsshould consult with their major adviser and follow guidance documents posted on the departmental website tochoose a focus area and associated course options. All parts of the Earth and its environments are interconnected,and the integrated Earth and Environmental Science major allows students to create a comprehensiveunderstanding of the cycling of energy and materials through Earth’s four spheres (lithosphere, hydrosphere,atmosphere, and biosphere) while also developing some more specific expertise through a focus.  Honors in Earth and Environmental SciencesThe EES Honors Program provides research experience and mentoring in preparation for a career or graduatestudies in Earth and environmental sciences. Interested students should apply to the undergraduate adviser forentry into the Honors Program fall semester, junior year. A grade point average of 3.3 or higher both cumulativelyand in courses that count toward the EES major is required for admission to the Honors Program.Working closely with a faculty adviser, students in the Honors Program complete a research project of interest toboth the student and faculty member during the junior and senior years. In order to graduate with honors in EES, astudent must: (1) maintain a 3.3 grade point average both in the EES major and cumulatively; (2) complete therequired courses for the EES major; (3) complete Senior Honors Seminar (4996, 4997) and Senior Honors Research(4998, 4999); (4) satisfactorily present the results of his/her research in written form as a senior thesis to twomembers of the faculty and orally to students and faculty of the department. Minor in Earth and Environmental SciencesThe minor in EES provides students with a broad background in Earth processes, systems, and history, and anintroduction to environmental issues. This background is highly relevant to many different fields of endeavor. Theminor does not fully prepare students for graduate studies or employment as Earth or environmental scientists,though it could do so paired with another relevant STEM major. Students should consult with the director ofundergraduate studies about how the minor in EES fits with their career or graduate school interests. The minor consists of at least five courses (at least 17 credit hours; EES 1510/1510L, 1030/1030L, and EES1081/1081L each count as one course). Students are encouraged to choose courses based on their interests andcareer plans and to discuss course selection with the director of undergraduate studies. No more than two 1000-level courses count toward the minor. Two courses with labs are required; one must be numbered above 2000. Nocredit toward the minor is given for EES 3841–3842 or 3851–3852. Licensure for TeachingEES majors may choose a second major in science education which includes teaching licensure, a prudent choice ifinterested in teaching. Peabody offers a fifth-year master’s program for science majors interested in teaching. Upongraduating with a B.A. in EES, EES majors in the fifth-year program would spend the next summer and academicyear earning their M.Ed. and teaching licensure. Students seeking teacher certification in science disciplines at the secondary level should refer to the chapter onCertification for Teaching in the Peabody College section of the Undergraduate Catalog. Please contact ProfessorHeather Johnson, coordinator of science secondary education, at heather.j.johnson@vanderbilt.edu for moreinformation.EconomicsProgram of Concentration in EconomicsMinor in EconomicsHonors ProgramPage 362 of 1019 