advanced computer science courses, with a technical elective taken in fall of the junior year.  Otherwise, studentsmay choose a technical elective in spring of the sophomore year and an ECE program elective in fall of the junioryear. ‡‡As described in Electrical and Computer Engineering Degree Requirements section 6. At least one Design DomainExpertise (DE) course required prior to ECE 4951.Engineering Science and ManagementEngineering Science Major (Bachelor of Science)Engineering ManagementCommunication of Science and TechnologyMinorsCurriculum Requirements  DIRECTOR Yiorgos KostoulasPROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE David A. Berezov, Yiorgos Kostoulas, David A. Owens, Christopher J. RoweASSOCIATE PROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE Courtney L. Johnson, Grayson McClainASSISTANT PROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE Lynne Cooper, Lina DengADJOINT PROFESSORS OF THE PRACTICE: John A. Bers, J. Caleb Clanton The Division of Engineering Science and Management administers the engineering science major, the engineeringmanagement minor, and the first-year introduction to engineering course. The division oversees non-traditionalengineering study and advises students on course selection to meet specific career goals that traditionalengineering majors may not provide. COURSES OFFERED: ENGM, ESEngineering Science Major (Bachelor of Science)The engineering science major is flexible and interdisciplinary—offering students the opportunity to select a programof study to meet special interests or objectives. Many students choose a program of study in engineeringmanagement, communication of science and technology, various engineering concentrations, environmentalscience or materials  science; however, students may develop unique plans of study to specialize in areas for whichfacilities and faculty competence exist but which are not covered within a single existing degree program atVanderbilt. Engineering science graduates may establish careers in engineering or science, interface with engineers(e.g., in marketing and sales), or use their analytical and problem-solving skills to build future professional careers.Defined areas of concentration exist in engineering management, communication of science and technology,secondary education, and materials science and engineering. Individual programs have been developed for studentsinterested in careers in engineering mathematics, environmental engineering, transportation engineering, teaching,technical communications, and other areas requiring nontraditional combinations of engineering courses. Becauseof the flexible nature of the engineering science programs of study, accreditation has not been sought for theseprograms of study, and engineering science majors will not qualify for engineering licensure in most states. Engineering Management. Engineering management is an interdisciplinary program of study designed to givestudents the tools to manage technology development and innovation, to enhance manufacturing quality andproductivity in a competitive international environment, and to implement these objectives successfully in anPage 372 of 1019 