term in which a student is enrolled at Vanderbilt University. Test credit and transfer credit can be used to satisfy thecredit hour requirement. VUSE Promotion Standards ClassStandingGPA RequirementCredit Hour RequirementMinimum ResidenceRequirementSophomore1.8024 hours earned2 regular semestersJunior1.9054 hours earned4 regular semestersSenior2.0086 hours earned6 regular semesters Peabody: To qualify for sophomore standing, a freshman must earn at least 24 hours with a grade point average ofat least 1.800 and have completed two regular semesters. A freshman who fails to achieve sophomore standing atthe end of two regular semesters is placed on probation and has one additional semester in which to qualify forsophomore standing. This additional semester must be the summer session at Vanderbilt. Normally, students whofail to qualify for sophomore standing in the third semester are dropped from the university. A student qualifies for junior standing by earning 54 hours with a grade point average of at least 1.900 and havingcompleted four regular semesters. Students who fail to qualify for junior standing at the end of two semesters afterqualifying for sophomore standing are placed on probation and must qualify in an additional semester. This thirdsemester must be the summer session at Vanderbilt. Normally, students who do not qualify for junior standing inthis additional semester will be dropped from the university. A student qualifies for senior standing by earning 84 hours with a grade point average of at least 2.000 and havingcompleted six regular semesters. A student who fails to qualify for senior standing within two semesters ofqualifying for junior standing will be placed on probation and must qualify in one additional semester. This additionalsemester must be the summer session at Vanderbilt. Normally, students who do not qualify for senior standing inthis additional semester will be dropped from the university.Senior in Absentia (A&S)Arts & Science: A student who wishes to earn a baccalaureate degree in the College of Arts and Science inabsentia must have (a) completed the AXLE requirements and all major requirements; (b) earned at least 105 credithours and a grade point average of 2.000 with at least 60 credit hours earned in a minimum of four semesters ofresidence in the College of Arts and Science; (c) been accepted at a professional or graduate school where, duringthe first year, the remaining credit hours needed for graduation can be earned; and (d) obtained the approval of themajor department and an associate dean of the College of Arts and Science. Students who have completed fewerthan 105 credit hours may petition the Administrative Committee for special consideration. The limitation on credit hours outside the College of Arts and Science applies to all bachelor of arts candidates. Students in the senior-in-absentia program pay a minimum semester tuition charge to the College of Arts andScience (see Financial Information).ExaminationsExaminations (A&S, Blair, VUSE)Arts & Science: Each department establishes procedures for evaluating student performance, and normally themethod of evaluation is the responsibility of the course instructor. At the beginning of the semester instructorsshould clearly state the evaluation procedures, including types of examinations, to be used in their courses.Students should have adequate opportunity during the semester to demonstrate their knowledge of the subjectmatter and should be given an indication of their progress in the course prior to the deadline for dropping courses.Page 84 of 1019 