own dean. The school’s program emphasizes the relationship of the engineering profession to society and preparesengineers to be socially aware as well as technically competent. The mission of the School of Engineering is threefold: to produce intellectual leaders, entrepreneurs, and innovatorsby recruiting the best students and providing them a top-notch education; to deliver scholarship of the highestcaliber, published in the most visible venues, addressing important societal problems; and to be a leader inentrepreneurship and innovation, in Tennessee, the U.S., and globally. The school strives to meet the undergraduate education portion of its mission by offering degree programs in fieldsof engineering relevant to the needs of society. An objective of these programs is to provide a technical educationintegrated with strong humanities, fine arts, and social sciences subject matter to provide the requisite foundationfor lifelong learning. The availability of second majors and minors in subject areas in other schools and colleges ofthe university increases opportunities for engineering students to enhance their education by pursuing studies inthe non-technical disciplines. Engineering students take close to 50 percent of their courses outside of the School ofEngineering and associate daily with peers from other schools and colleges within the university. Another objective is to prepare students who intend to enter engineering practice upon graduation and those whowill continue their studies at the graduate level in engineering or in other professional fields. To this end, ourprograms emphasize mathematics and engineering sciences with significant exposure to engineering design andhands-on laboratory experiences. A large fraction of the student body is destined for management positions early in their working careers. To meetthese students’ needs, the Engineering Management program offers a well-integrated minor. Students at all levels have the opportunity to work with faculty in the generation of new knowledge. Those planningfor graduate studies and research are especially encouraged to participate in individual topics and research coursesto fulfill that desire. Engineering students also participate in summer research programs of the university and of theschool. FacilitiesThe School of Engineering is housed in five main buildings with several satellite facilities. William W. FeatheringillHall houses a three-story atrium designed for student interaction and social events, more than fifty teaching andresearch laboratories with the latest equipment and computer resources, and project rooms. The Engineering andScience Building is an eight-story state-of-the-art building that houses the Wond'ry at the Innovation Pavilion, theFrist Center for Autism and Innovation, numerous research labs, interactive classrooms, clean rooms, and space forstudents to work, study, and socialize. Olin Hall, which is attached to the Engineering and Science building, housesChemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Materials Science, several classrooms, andresearch and teaching laboratories. School administrative offices and several classrooms are located on the groundfloor of the Science and Engineering Building in Stevenson Center, which also houses the Biomedical Engineeringdepartment on the 8th and 9th floors. Jacobs Hall, which flanks Featheringill Hall, contains laboratories, offices, andclassrooms serving the Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Electrical and Computer Engineering departments.Labs, offices, and meeting spaces for Computer Science are also housed at 17th & DeFord Bailey, a building thatserves as a hub for Computer Science and Data Science. Several satellite facilities are also part of the EngineeringSchool: the W. M. Keck Free-Electron Laser Center building, housing the labs and offices of the Biomedical PhotonicsCenter; the Laboratory for Systems Integrity and Reliability (LASIR), an off-campus hangar-style facility dedicated toscaling up experiments to realistic and full size that houses a wind tunnel and military aircraft; the VanderbiltInstitute of Software Integrated Systems; and the Institute for Space and Defense Electronics. In all its engineering programs, Vanderbilt recognizes the vital place of experimental and research laboratories inthe learning experience. Laboratories are designed to provide the strongest personal contact between students andfaculty members consistent with enrollment.Page 171 of 1019 