STUDY ABROAD COMMITTEE FacultyFor a list of current faculty, please visit vanderbilt.edu/faculty-affairs/faculty-registry/.A Community for Liberal LearningFaculty and StudentsThe Writing Studio/Tutoring ServicesComputersThe Advising SystemPublic Lectures  “The work of the College of Arts and Science is fundamental. It is the basis of all professional study. No professionalschool can be self-sufficient. The College in its undergraduate and graduate work must remain the heart of the wholesituation, and send its quickening life blood into every fiber and tissue.”—Chancellor James H. Kirkland at the semicentennial celebration of the university October 1925 Chancellor Kirkland’s words were prophetic of our times as well as true of his own. Since its founding Vanderbilt haspursued its mission of excellence in the liberal arts with a commitment to liberal learning that is the special concernof the College of Arts and Science. Liberal learning endures because it brings men and women to subjects, concepts,and modes of thought that enable them to think critically about where humanity has been and where it ought to begoing. The liberal arts spark curiosity and broaden vision, help to instill understanding of matters otherwiseunknown, and encourage individuals to live their lives with a sense of purpose, context, and relatedness. A liberaleducation has perennial relevance and usefulness: it should prepare its recipients to think precisely, to reasonclearly, and to judge wisely—all practical considerations in the pursuit of constructive and satisfying lives and in thepractice of today’s professions and vocations. Today the College of Arts and Science maintains its historic position as the heart of the university. Excellence inundergraduate and graduate education is its unwavering aim. The College of Arts and Science provides intellectual stimulation, training, and incentive designed to foster thelifelong liberal learning of its graduates. It offers challenging, forward-looking programs of study in the humanities,natural sciences, and social sciences resourcefully taught by distinguished faculty recognized for excellence inresearch, scholarship, and creative expression. It promotes self-realization and expression in the context of socialresponsibility. Faculty and StudentsThe College of Arts and Science derives its strength from the range of its academic offerings, from the quality of thefaculty who teach, and from the quality of the students who come to learn. Traditionally fortunate in its ability toattract and retain a superior faculty, the College of Arts and Science has more than 500 full-time professors whosupplement their achievements in the classroom with significant research, creativity, and writing. Many facultymembers hold awards for distinguished scholarship and have been elected to high offices in their professionalassociations, including the Classical Association of the Middle West and South, the American Economics Association,the American Political Science Association, the American Philosophical Association, the American Physical Society,Page 99 of 1019 