Instructors are cautioned against placing excessive weight on the final examination when determining a student’sgrade in a course. Blair: All examinations are conducted under the honor system. Primary and alternate exam schedules, which allowtwo hours for a final exam in each course, are listed on the University Registrar's website. The instructor may usethe alternate schedule in addition to, but not instead of, the primary schedule. Alternatives to standard in-class final examinations, such as term papers or take-home, self-scheduled, or oralexaminations may be given at the instructor’s discretion. A take-home exam is distributed at the last regular classmeeting and must be completed by the latest time scheduled for the final examination. Performance examinations are scheduled by area coordinators. Students giving full recitals during the semestermay be exempted from performance examinations at the discretion of the instructor. If performance examinationsare scheduled on a reading day (the day after classes end, when no course examinations are scheduled), studentsare also given the choice of a different day for their performance examinations. A student who misses a final examination may be eligible to receive the grade M (see Temporary Grades). Engineering: Examinations are usually given at the end of each semester. Exams will be no longer than threehours in length and are given according to the schedule published in the Final Examination Schedule. The School ofEngineering does not offer an alternate examination schedule. All examinations are conducted under the honorsystem. Students must be present for all their scheduled final exams or otherwise will default on their exams.Dead Week (A&S, Blair, PBDY)Arts & Science: No examinations of any type—including quizzes, hour examinations, and portions of finalexaminations—are allowed during the last week of classes; papers and in-class presentations are permitted duringdead week. The Administrative Committee may grant special permission to the instructor in charge of a course togive laboratory examinations during the last regular laboratory period of the last week of classes. The last week ofclasses is defined as the last seven calendar days preceding the end of classes. If, for example, classes end onTuesday, then the “dead week” begins the preceding Wednesday and lasts through Tuesday. Students should notifythe Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education of any violation. Blair: The last week of classes, i.e., the last seven calendar days before the final examination period each semester,is designated as dead week. No examinations of any type, including quizzes, portions of final examinations, recitals,or ensemble performances, may be given during this time without the express written permission of the dean andnotification of students at least two weeks before dead week. Violations should be reported to the dean. Peabody: Because Peabody classes integrate theory and practice, many courses include significant semester-longgroup and individual projects that culminate in papers, presentations, simulations, or other activities at the end ofthe semester. Therefore, while instructors are discouraged from scheduling quizzes, tests, or short-termassignments for the last week of the semester, Peabody’s “dead week” policy does not prohibit assignments duringthe week before finals.Final Examinations (A&S)Arts & Science: The primary and alternate final examination schedules issued each semester allow two hours for afinal examination in each course. Each in-class final examination must be given at the time indicated on the primaryschedule. The alternate schedule is used only if the instructor decides to give an in-class examination at two times.The final examination period lasts for about a week and a half. Page 85 of 1019 