MaymesterIn the interval of several weeks between final examinations in the spring semester and the beginning of summersession, Vanderbilt offers educational travel opportunities and a variety of courses that would be difficult to offerduring a regular semester. Students are permitted to take no more than one course during the Maymester. Housing and food services areavailable during the session. Visiting students are eligible for Maymester courses. Information about May courses on campus or abroad can be found at vanderbilt.edu/summer.Financial InformationFinancial InformationInformation about undergraduate tuition and fees for the 2024-25 is available athttps://www.vanderbilt.edu/stuaccts/fees/tuition_fees_2024-25_ugrd.php. Payment of Tuition and FeesThe Office of Student Accounts can be contacted at (615) 322-6693, toll-free at (800) 288-1144, or via email atstudent.accounts@vanderbilt.edu. For additional information, please visit the Student Accounts website atvanderbilt.edu/stuaccts.TranscriptsOfficial academic transcripts are supplied by the Office of the University Registrar on authorization from the student.Additional information is available at https://registrar.vanderbilt.edu/transcripts/.Fraternity and Sorority MembershipThere is a financial commitment associated with joining a fraternity or sorority. The costs go toward inter/nationalfees, chapter operating expenses, and social functions. Financial obligations differ for men and women and amongindividual chapters. New members can expect to pay higher dues their first semester. Many chapters participate inthe Facility Management Program, and members pay $322 each semester, charged to their student account, for themaintenance and upkeep of the chapter house. Dues range from $750 to $1,500 for Interfraternity Council (IFC) andPanhellenic women. Initiation fees for National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) and Intercultural Greek Council (IGC)chapters range from $500 to $1,500 and continuing dues range from $100 to $500 each year. Additional coststhroughout the semester may be for meal plans, conference attendance, philanthropic contributions, pictures, gifts,parties, T-shirts, etc. Chapter fees are paid directly to the fraternity or sorority. There are payment plans available tostudents, as well as scholarships within the individual chapters. For more information, please visit the Office of Greek Life.
Page 46 of 1019 