The Founder’s Medal, signifying first honors, was endowed by Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt as one of his gifts tothe university. The recipient is named by the dean after consideration of faculty recommendations and the gradepoint averages of the year’s summa cum laude graduates.Latin Honors DesignationHonors noted on diplomas and published in the Commencement Program are earned as follows:Summa Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the top 5 percent of the previousthree years’ School of Engineering graduating seniors.Magna Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 8 percent of the previousthree years’ School of Engineering graduating seniors.Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 12 percent of the previous threeyears’ School of Engineering graduating seniors.Dean’s ListThe Dean’s List recognizes outstanding academic performance in a semester. Students are named to the Dean’s Listwhen they earn a grade point average of at least 3.500 while carrying 12 or more graded hours, with no temporaryor missing grades in any course (credit or non-credit) and no grade of F. Dean's List designations are posted to theAcademic Record in YES.Honor SocietiesALPHA ETA MU BETA, the National Biomedical Engineering Honor Society, was installed at Vanderbilt University in1998 and re-established in 2019. AEMB was established in 1979 to recognize and encourage excellence in the fieldof biomedical engineering and bioengineering. TAU BETA PI. The Tennessee Beta chapter of the Tau Beta Pi Association was installed at Vanderbilt University 7December 1946. Members of Tau Beta Pi are selected from undergraduate students in the School of Engineeringwho have completed at least four semesters of required work, are in the upper eighth of their class scholastically,and have shown marked qualities of character and leadership; seniors in the upper fifth of their class scholasticallyare also eligible for election. CHI EPSILON. The Vanderbilt chapter of Chi Epsilon, installed 18 March 1967, is restricted to undergraduate civilengineering students in the top third of their class. Election is based on grade point average, facultyrecommendation, and exceptional achievements in extracurricular campus activities. ETA KAPPA NU. The Epsilon Lambda chapter of the Eta Kappa Nu Association was established 22 April 1966.Undergraduate members are selected from the upper third of the class in electrical and computer engineering. EtaKappa Nu recognizes leadership and scholastic accomplishment twice annually, selecting members also from theprofessional body of practicing engineers. PI TAU SIGMA. The Delta Alpha chapter of Pi Tau Sigma was installed on the Vanderbilt campus 22 April 1971, for thepurpose of recognizing scholastic achievement and professional promise in junior and senior mechanicalengineering students. Students are elected to membership twice each year on the basis of academic excellence andrecommendations from the faculty and chapter members. SIGMA XI. The Vanderbilt chapter of the Society of the Sigma Xi recognizes accomplishment, devotion, andoriginality in scientific research. Associate members are elected annually from graduate-level students of theuniversity. HONOR SOCIETIES FOR FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS. First-year students who earn a grade point average of 3.5 or betterPage 181 of 1019 