Immersion VanderbiltImmersion Vanderbilt is an innovative program that enhances the undergraduate experience through hands-onexperiential and applied learning. Each student shall complete at least one immersive experience, followed by aculminating project. At its core, Immersion Vanderbilt gives every Vanderbilt student the opportunity to pursueintellectual curiosities through immersive experiences and culminating projects that are as creative and unique asthe students. Throughout the Immersion Vanderbilt program, students are supported by faculty and the ImmersionVanderbilt office. Immersion Vanderbilt is a requirement for all undergraduates. Some majors, minors, programs of study, and classesare approved to satisfy the immersive experience, culminating project, or both. To complete the ImmersionVanderbilt requirement, students engage in one or more experiential learning activities, for which the student has afaculty or staff mentor. The student will complete their immersive experience in one of the six immersion pathwaysof their choosing: 1) Research; 2) Study Abroad; 3) Innovation, Arts, & Design; 4) Civic & Community Engagement;5) Leadership & Professional Development; or 6) Internships. When a student engages in research for Immersion, aVanderbilt faculty member must be the mentor. Throughout the program, students are prompted to reflect upontheir immersive experiences, which can inform the development of the culminating project. This reflective processensures that students gain a deeper understanding of their immersive experience(s) and its significance to theirgoals. Upon completing their immersive experience(s), students plan and complete their culminating project. Althoughstudents are encouraged to base their culminating project on their immersive experience(s), this is not required; theculminating project can relate to an immersive experience already completed or a new topic. As with the immersiveexperience, the student completes their culminating project in one of the six immersion pathways: 1) Research; 2)Study Abroad; 3) Innovation, Arts, & Design; 4) Civic & Community Engagement; 5) Leadership & ProfessionalDevelopment; or 6) Internship. The format of the culminating project can take many forms, including oralpresentations, poster presentations, artistic displays at a showcase, performances, design projects, videos,websites, prototypes, white papers, or senior theses, among others. The Immersion Vanderbilt faculty adviserguides the creation of the culminating project, assesses its quality, and marks it as complete. When the Immersion Vanderbilt faculty adviser approves the culminating project submission, the ImmersionVanderbilt requirement is complete and cannot be changed. Completion of the Immersion Vanderbilt graduationrequirement is noted on the student’s degree audit and the student transcript is updated with the culminatingproject title and project pathway. More information about Immersion Vanderbilt can be found at:https://www.vanderbilt.edu/immersion/.Hoogland Undergraduate Business ProgramVanderbilt University offers a transinstitutional, interdisciplinary undergraduate minor in business that isadministered by the Owen Graduate School of Management. The undergraduate business minor requires 16.5 credithours and is directed by Gary Kimball. Professor Kimball also serves as the director of undergraduate studies for theprogram. The Hoogland Undergraduate Business Program (BUS) provides students with a rigorous exposure to thefundamental business disciplines of financial reporting, finance, organizational behavior, marketing, and operations.The program also intentionally grounds the study of business within the liberal arts tradition, allowing students tounderstand the context within which business operates in society. Students declaring the undergraduate business minor (BUS) may not also declare either of the minors in human andorganizational development (HOD) or engineering management (ENGM). Students electing the undergraduatebusiness minor must follow academic regulations regarding minors in their home school, including but not limited toregulations regarding unique hours. Page 19 of 1019 