AXLE: Achieving eXcellence in Liberal EducationThe Arts and Science core program of study—known as AXLE—is anchored in intensive practice in writing and adiverse thirteen-course component of classes that has been designed to allow maximum choice in course selection(based on student interests and achievement levels). At the same time, the distribution requirements of AXLEensure that students will explore intellectually and academically the breadth of possibilities represented by theliberal arts. What Is Liberal Education?The study of the liberal arts—what is historically called a liberal education—is the oldest and most venerable form ofhigher education. It has proved itself perennially flexible and adaptive over the past centuries, and it remains thesingle best educational preparation for further, specialized study in the professions (medicine, law, education,business, et al.), as well as for doctoral work in the humanities and social sciences and advanced research in thesciences. The holistic focus of a liberal education encompasses all areas of human knowledge: the natural and socialsciences, mathematics, foreign languages and cultures, the arts, and the humanities. The empirical disciplines guideus in our efforts to live most productively and efficiently. But the rest of the curriculum—the humanities and the arts—makes it possible to reflect upon the right use of the remarkable scientific knowledge we have acquired. In aliberal arts education, content is always considered in its larger context. Thus, the reflective and discursive aspectsof study in the liberal arts call upon students to move beyond the mere acquisition of information to inquire into thedeeper issues within their studies, and to connect their learning across disciplines and cultures as they live and workin the communal environment of Vanderbilt. The end product of a successful liberal arts education is a thoughtfulcitizen who is prepared to take up his or her rights and responsibilities in a democratic society, to analyze andcritique received information, to articulate the issues at hand or the personal values at stake, and whose intellectuallife is marked by ongoing internal dialogue about the quality and meaning of life for him or her, as well as for thecommunity at large. Fear No Learning!The interdisciplinary inclination of many courses in the College of Arts and Science is an ideal training ground forlearning new methodologies for problem solving in the complex, global world of the 21st century. Here, studentsmay work with biologists and psychologists in the Neuroscience program; study with creative writers, sociologists,historians, or cinema and media arts scholars in the African American and Diaspora Studies program; or take a class,team taught, by professors from the School of Music and the Department of English in the College of Arts andScience. Over the course of a Vanderbilt education, students challenge themselves with the academic demands ofthe classes  they select, and are challenged by new ideas and unfamiliar ways of looking at issues. Exploring beyondthe boundaries of one’s intellectual comfort zone in order to admit new ideas is one of the most important aspects ofhigher education. The time and effort devoted to selecting thoughtfully the courses that will satisfy AXLErequirements prepare students for the more specialized study that they undertake in their major (or majors). How to Get StartedThe program of studies is divided approximately into thirds: 1/3 — courses to meet the requirements of the Writing and Liberal Arts requirements;1/3 — courses required to complete the chosen major;1/3 — electives, which will complete the 120 credit hours required for graduation. These divisions are approximate and may differ for individual students. For a student’s first semester, most selections should be from the first group, courses that will fulfill the Writing andPage 104 of 1019 