 Engineering: A student proposing to withdraw from the university must notify the Office of Academic Services ofthe School of Engineering so that proper clearance may be granted and incomplete work is not charged as a failureagainst the student’s record. Peabody: Students proposing to withdraw from the university during any semester must report to the AssociateDean for Undergraduate Academic Affairs  to initiate proper clearance procedures. Students are graded on the samebasis as if withdrawing from a course. Students who withdraw before the end of the eighth week of classes receive apartial refund of tuition (see the section on Financial Information).Change of Address (A&S, Blair, VUSE)Arts & Science: Students are responsible for keeping the university informed of their correct mailing addresses,both school and home. They should notify the university, through the Office of the University Registrar, online or inwriting, of any address changes as soon as possible. They are provided an opportunity to review address informationat registration. The university will consider notices and other information delivered if mailed to the address on file inthe Office of the University Registrar. Blair: Any change of address should be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar at yes.vanderbilt.edu.The university will consider notices or other information delivered if mailed to the address currently on file. Engineering: Any change of address should be reported to the Office of the University Registrar using the YESonline form. The university will consider notices or other information delivered if mailed to the address on file in YES.Special ProgramsImmersion Vanderbilt (Blair, VUSE)Blair: To fulfill the university requirement of Immersion Vanderbilt, a student must participate in an intensivelearning experience that takes place in and beyond the classroom and culminates in the creation of a tangible finalproject. This requirement applies to all students who entered Vanderbilt as first-year students in or after summer2018, as second-year students in or after summer 2019, or as third-year students in or after summer 2020. Immersion Vanderbilt is divided into four broad pathways: civic and professional, creative expression, international,and research. The pathway selected by the student may focus on one or more than one of these areas and shouldprovide a structure upon which students can brainstorm, plan, and execute their immersive projects across multipleyears. Most Blair students will take advantage of the senior recital experience or honors thesis inethnomusicology/musicology to satisfy the requirements of Immersion Vanderbilt. However, students may choose topursue an Immersion plan outside their home program. Students should consult the Office of Experiential Learningand Immersion Vanderbilt. Completion of the Immersion Vanderbilt graduation requirement will be shown on thestudent's degree audit, and the title of the Immersion project will be added to the student'stranscript. vanderbilt.edu/immersion Engineering: Immersion Vanderbilt (vanderbilt.edu/immersion) allows students to pursue a multi-year path to becurious, to develop their passions and to learn by experience. To fulfill the university requirement of ImmersionVanderbilt, a student must participate in immersive experiences and then complete a culminating project that isbased on one specific immersive experience. The experiential learning may focus on one or more areas of student interest.  Most engineering students will takePage 94 of 1019 