 Students may combine an interdisciplinary major with a major in one of the recognized fields listed at the beginningof this section. Declaration of the Area of ConcentrationStudents may formally declare a major at any time during the third semester of residence and must do so no laterthan the Friday before Spring Break of the fourth semester. The student selects a department or interdisciplinaryprogram and contacts that department or program for assignment to an adviser. Students who wish to develop anindividually designed interdisciplinary program apply to the associate dean who chairs the Committee on IndividualPrograms. Each fall a program is arranged that provides for consultation of sophomores with department chairs, for thepurpose of helping students select a major. Sophomore students who have not declared a major should participatein this program if they intend to attain junior standing before the next spring. Students should declare their intention to pursue specific majors by completing forms available in the Dean’s Officeof Undergraduate Education as well as the various departmental and program offices. Departments and programsassign advisers to students who declare majors in their respective areas. Students have the responsibility to knowand satisfy all requirements for majors that they intend to complete. When the student’s major has been registered,access to the student’s academic record is transferred from the pre-major adviser to the new major adviser, withwhom they should work closely. Students may not add a major(s) past the fifth class-day of the first semester of the senior year. Individually Designed Interdisciplinary MajorsThis plan permits students to contract for an individually designed program of concentration consisting of at least48 credit hours of approved work. The program is constructed around a coherent academic purpose and may drawtogether the academic resources of a number of departments and schools. The program’s purpose may includetopical, period, or area studies, and must be consistent with the philosophy underlying a liberal arts education (seethe “What is Liberal Education?” section of this catalog). The program should not be designed with a focus on pre-professional training  (e.g., pre-business, pre-law, or pre-medicine). The student may be required to achieve astandard of proficiency in appropriately related areas such as foreign languages or mathematics in addition to the48 credit hours constituting the program of concentration. Each student must identify a major adviser who will offer advice and guidance. The major adviser must be aprofessor or full-time senior lecturer in the College of Arts and Science. The student’s plan for an individually designed interdisciplinary major is a statement of required courses.Furthermore, because of the nature of interdisciplinary majors, all courses that have previously been included in thestudent’s plan are considered to be part of the major discipline. The student must achieve at least a 2.000 gradepoint average in all courses that are (or have been) part of the plan. Normally, no more than three introductory-level courses will be counted toward the interdisciplinary major. Students may not add a major(s) past the fifth class day of the first semester of the senior year.Page 111 of 1019 