PerformancePerformance instruction in individual or group settings is available for university credit for an additional fee. Privateinstruction is offered in all orchestral instruments and in piano, organ, guitar, saxophone, euphonium, steeldrum/pan, and voice. Credit is flexible, but beginning students may register for only 1 credit hour. Students can earneither 1 or 2 credit hours each semester, depending on lesson length and number of required practice hours.Students in the School of Engineering can count up to 12 hours of performance courses towards liberal arts corerequirements. For others, performance is elective credit. Group instruction is offered in piano, guitar, and percussion; groups have maximum of six students and earn 1 credit hour.Group Performance Instruction: Non-MajorGroup instruction is designed for beginning students with emphasis on basic technique, rhythm, tone, and musicalinterpretation. Groups are limited to six students. Registration. New students must interview with the appropriate faculty member before finalizing registration.Instructions are given in the online registration system. Fees. Music fees are in addition to tuition charges and are not refundable after the change period. The cost for groupinstruction is $1,013 per semester for one 50-minute class weekly. (Fees, set annually by the Board of Trust, aresubject to review and change without further notice.)Individual Performance InstructionIndividual instruction is focused on the art and practice of an instrument or voice, with emphasis on tone quality,technique, rhythm, interpretation, and literature. Blair offers collegiate-level performance instruction for non-majorsat the 1100 level. 2100-, 2200-, 4100- and 4200-level courses are open only to B.Mus. and B.Mus.Arts students. Registration. New students must interview with the appropriate faculty member before finalizing registration.Information is available in YES. Enrollments are limited. Credit. University students enrolled in individual instruction may earn 1 or 2 credit hours depending on lesson lengthand practice commitment.30-minute or 45-minute lessons with 5 hours minimum weekly practice earn 1 credit60-minute lessons with 10 hours minimum weekly practice earn 2 creditBeginners may not register for more than 1 hour of creditFees. Music fees are charged in addition to regular tuition, and are not refundable after the change period. Students receiving need-based financial aid may request that music fees be considered in their financial aidpackage. Students with a declared second major or minor in music will be charged approximately one-half the musicperformance instruction fee. For instrument courses numbered 1100, fees per semester are as follows:  Elective Credit/Non-Blair Students2nd majors andminors receive 50% discountOne 30-minute lesson weekly$1,311 One 45-minute lesson weekly$1,838 One 60-minute lesson weekly$2,304  Page 131 of 1019 