to dental school under the senior-in-absentia program (see Senior-in-Absentia in this catalog) or apply for admissionafter three years of college work without a degree. Any student contemplating application to dental school should take at least two semesters of English, foursemesters of chemistry including organic, two semesters of biology, two semesters of physics, and at least onesemester of calculus/math. Since prerequisites may vary across dental schools, students are urged to consult theADEA Official Guide to Dental Schools published by the American Association of Dental Schools. NursingStudents interested in developing a program that could lead to a master of science in nursing are advised to consultthe Office of Admissions in the School of Nursing. ArchitectureUndergraduate students in the College of Arts and Science expecting to pursue architecture at the graduate levelshould complete at least one year of analytic geometry and calculus and one year of physics. Students may selectany major  but would want to include courses that emphasize a broad sense of art and architectural history,including courses in studio art. Before applying to specific schools of architecture, they would develop a portfolio ofcreative work. Further information is available from the pre-architecture advisers: Professor Vesna Pavlović,Department of Art, and Professor Kevin Murphy, Department of the History of Art and Architecture. EngineeringUndergraduate students in the College of Arts and Science expecting to pursue engineering at the graduate levelshould normally major in a natural science or mathematics and, at a minimum, should complete two years ofcalculus or its equivalent, one year each of chemistry and physics, and at least an additional year of a naturalscience or mathematics. A minimum of one year of computer science is highly desirable. Students should seekspecific information concerning admission from the engineering school of their choice as early as possible,preferably by the end of the sophomore year, to assure optimum preparation for entry into that school. Standardsfor admission vary, but usually a 3.00 average or better is required. LawThere is no formal program of prelaw studies at Vanderbilt. Most law schools have no specific requirements for aprelaw curriculum but place great emphasis on the development of the student’s ability to read and comprehendaccurately, thoroughly, and rapidly; to speak and write clearly and correctly; to think precisely; and to analyzecomplex situations and weigh and appraise their several elements. The development of analytical skills and ofmature study habits is vital. A broad cultural background is important—since law touches life at every point, everysubject in the college curriculum may bear on the lawyer’s work. Students interested in the study of law should plantheir undergraduate programs in consultation with Dean Carrie Russell, prelaw adviser, in the Dean’s Office ofUndergraduate Education. Teacher EducationDetails will be found in Licensure for Teaching in the Peabody College section of this catalog. InternshipsStudents may earn academic credit for the work of internships in the College of Arts and Science on a Pass/Fail basisPage 116 of 1019 