advantage of a four-year engineering design experience to satisfy the requirements of Immersion Vanderbilt. Eachengineering major offers such a multi-year experience within its curriculum. Students whose plans includeprofessional development may also pursue industrial internships. A research path can engage the student indiscovery through research in engineering or other fields. While most engineering students will select an immersionexperience associated with their major, students can pursue an Immersion plan outside their home program. Forexample, students interested in creative expression might develop a performance piece, exhibit, or artistic work,while those interested in international study may explore firsthand the culture, language, and history of othercountries. Students interested in such immersion plans should consult the Office of Experiential Learning andImmersion Vanderbilt. The Immersion Vanderbilt process is composed of several phases. The initial step involves the creation of a plan thatidentifies the intended Immersive experience. Before students start their immersive experience, they will submit theImmersive Experience Declaration Form. Students may submit multiple immersive experience forms throughouttheir time at Vanderbilt University. After each experience, a self-reflection component is required. Immersion Vanderbilt culminates in the creation of a final project arising from one of the experiences. Approval andassessment of the project is done by the supervising school or college. Senior design projects in the School ofEngineering satisfy the final project requirement for Immersion Vanderbilt, with students presenting the results oftheir design project at the school’s Design Day. For students completing other immersion projects, Immersioncoordinates a series of showcases open to the entire campus where students display their projects. Upon completionof the project, Immersion Vanderbilt conveys that the requirements have been met by showing completion of theImmersion Vanderbilt graduation requirement on the student’s degree audit and adding the Immersion project tothe student’s transcript.Study Abroad (Blair)Blair: Five Vanderbilt study abroad programs are coordinated with the degree programs in music: the IES programsin Milan, Italy; Vienna, Austria; and in Amsterdam, The Netherlands; the DIS program at the Royal Danish Academyof Music in Copenhagen, Denmark, and the IFSA/Butler program at the University of Sydney and SydneyConservatorium of Music in Sydney, Australia. These programs include provisions for lesson and ensemble credits,contingent upon audition and admission to the program. These will count towards the Blair music core and arecovered at least in part by regular tuition and fees, although students are responsible for any instrument rental feesthey accrue. All programs also allow for a range of liberal arts and elective credits. Further information can beobtained from the Vanderbilt Global Education Office, Suite 103, Student Life Center, or vanderbilt.edu/geo, andfrom Blair’s associate dean. Blair students may also elect any of the Vanderbilt-approved study abroad programs; see descriptions under “StudyAbroad” in the front chapters of the catalog. Blair students in these programs have typically enrolled in musicelectives, courses in the liberal arts core, and course work toward minors and second majors. Students in theseprograms typically arrange alternative performance or composition instruction, and those fees are usually notcovered by tuition. It should be noted that if a program has been approved by Vanderbilt students must enroll in theprogram via the Global Education Office. In no case, after matriculating at Vanderbilt, may a student apply toparticipate in a program for transfer credit through a different university, or through an external agency, and thenseek to transfer that credit into Vanderbilt. Any student studying abroad must register with Vanderbilt's global traveloffice.Blair-Specific ProvisionsInternships (Blair)Blair: The Career Center assists students interested in internship opportunities in the music industry and elsewhere;there are opportunities in many states of the U.S. and also abroad, both during the academic year and in thesummer. A student serving as an intern may register for MENT 3880, 3881, or 3882 as a corollary if credit is desired.Students with summer internships that require an academic component must register for credit(vanderbilt.edu/career/career-exploration/internships/summer-internship-subsidy/). A maximum of 6 hours ofinternship credit may be counted toward the degree. Students are responsible for finding a faculty sponsor; awritten study plan must be approved by the faculty sponsor and the Blair associate dean no later than the tenth dayof classes. Internship paperwork is available on the Blair School website at blair.vanderbilt.edu/academics.Page 95 of 1019 