College of Arts and Science. In no case may credits completed elsewhere after the student has been offeredadmission by the College of Arts and Science satisfy AXLE requirements.International StudentsVanderbilt has a large international community representing more than 95 countries. The university welcomes thediversity international students bring to the campus and encourages academic and social interactions at all levels. Admission. See International Applicants section. English Language Instruction. Students wishing to focus on improving their English language use for the context ofthe U.S. academic setting may take classes and participate in programming at the Vanderbilt English LanguageCenter to support their academic success. The ELC’s courses include writeELC, Academic Speaking, andPronunciation. Throughout the academic year, academic workshops and one-to-one consultations for speaking andwriting are also available through the ELC. Entering students may be required to take language support coursesconcurrently with their academic courses at the ELC. The ELC is located at 1208 18th Avenue South. For informationabout the ELC’s programming, see the “English Language Center” section or visit vanderbilt.edu/elc. Financial Resources. To meet requirements for entry into the United States for study, applicants must demonstratethat they have sufficient financial resources to meet the expected costs of their educational program. Applicantsmust provide documentary evidence of their financial resources before visa documents can be issued. United States laws and regulations restrict the opportunity for international students in a non-immigrant visa statusto be employed. Undergraduate international students are allowed to work on campus for nineteen hours per weekwhile school is in session. Students may be allowed to work off campus only under special circumstances and afterapproval from ISSS. Many spouses and dependents of international students are not allowed to be employed while inthe United States. Limited need-based financial aid is available to students who are neither citizens nor permanent residents of theUnited States, and are considered to be international students in Vanderbilt’s admissions process. Our admissionsprocess is need-aware for international students; international students who demonstrate that they can afford thecost of attending Vanderbilt will be given preferential treatment. To apply for need-based financial aid, internationalstudents are required to submit the College Scholarship Service (CSS) Financial Aid Profile. Based upon anevaluation of academic qualities, financial need, and availability of resources, an international student may beconsidered for need-based financial assistance. International students who apply for need-based financial aid will beadmitted only if they are competitive in our holistic review and if Vanderbilt is able to provide adequate financialassistance. International Student Health Insurance. International students are required to have health insurance throughouttheir academic program and are automatically enrolled in the Vanderbilt-approved health insurance plan forinternational students. For information concerning the limits, exclusions, and benefits of this insurance coverage,please contact the Student Health Center.
Page 42 of 1019 