HONORS IN MUSICOLOGY AND ETHNOMUSICOLOGY. 9 hoursDepartmental approval required for admission to this program; see regulations in the Honors section of the catalog.Thesis: Departmental approval of a formal thesis prospectus, MUSL 4998-4999 (6 hours), and successful completionof an oral defense.Course work: One course beyond the MUSL core chosen from MUSL 3220-3240, 3160, 2610, or 3890 (3 hours) The MUSL credit hours of this program may double-count in the concentration in musicology or ethnomusicology. MINOR INSTRUMENT. 10 hoursEnsemble: Participation on minor instrument (including voice) in two separate ensembles in addition to majorinstrument requirement, as assigned (2 hours)Performance: Minimum of four semesters (8 hours) in a second performance area (any orchestral instrument, piano,organ, harpsichord, guitar, saxophone, euphonium, voice, or baroque instrument). Students must meet minimumperformance standards, earning a total of 8 hours.Consent of instructor and department chair required. NOTE: Composition majors may satisfy the primary majorensemble and performance instruction requirements with courses also used to fulfill the minor instrumentrequirements. Teacher EducationThe Blair School and Peabody College offer a program for students interested in teacher licensure. Studentscompleting  this program earn the bachelor of music (B.Mus.) majoring in the integrated studies/teacher educationtrack for four years, and the master of education (M.Ed.) in the fifth year to complete professional educationrequirements. During the junior year, application is made to Peabody College. The M.Ed. work requires one calendaryear, June–May. Students may elect to work toward licensure in either instrumental/general or vocal/general music,based on their interest and ability to perform at a level sufficient for placement in the appropriate performingensemble. The curriculum includes a strong   music performance emphasis; a solid foundation inmusicology/ethnomusicology, theory, and the liberal arts; undergraduate and graduate courses in psychology andeducation; and practica (practical experience) four of the five years of study, with at least 15 weeks of studentteaching in field placements. Practica constitute a wide variety of grade K-12 experiences, including public school,private school, and Blair Academy programs such as Suzuki strings, Blair Children’s Chorus program, and theNashville Youth Orchestra program. Students complete the same music core requirements as any other B.Mus.candidate. The liberal arts core is adapted to fulfill state licensure requirements. Junior Mid-Program Review [Screening I]All students admitted to this program at matriculation must be formally continued through a process called JuniorMid- Program Review. Criteria for this review are listed below. Students not approved can complete the generalintegrated studies major.Faculty evaluation of a student’s qualifications for continuation in a teacher education program includes academic,performance, and disposition factors such as the following:1. Dependability (as evidenced by good attendance and academic performance in classes and practica)2. Professional and ethical behavior (honesty, acceptance of responsibility, emotional maturity)3. Attitude and interpersonal skills (including the ability to work with children and with peers)4. Academic competence Specific CriteriaPage 160 of 1019 
1. A minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.500.2. Successful completion (C- or better) of EDUC 1220 and SPED 12103. Successful completion (C- or better) of MUTH 2200, MUTH 2220, MUSL 2200W and MUED 38704. Successful completion (C- or better) of two additional Vanderbilt courses which count towards the Liberal Arts5. Departmental interview General CriteriaThese criteria rest on the professional judgment of appropriate faculty members, who are polled following thestudent’s application for Junior Mid-Program Review.1. Endorsement by the appropriate faculty that the applicant has demonstrated the academic and musicalqualifications expected of Vanderbilt teacher education2. Endorsement by the appropriate faculty that the applicant has demonstrated the personal and charactertraits expected of Vanderbilt teacher education Procedure for Junior Mid-Program Review [Screening I]Students apply for continuation in the teacher education program [Screening I] through the Blair program director.Applications must be submitted in the fall semester of the junior year. Deadline for submitting applications for JuniorMid-Program Review [Screening I] is 1 October. A departmental interview is then held with each candidate to reviewthe student's academic progress and disposition criteria of dependability, professional and ethical behavior, attitude,and interpersonal skills. Fifth Year Curriculum
Page 161 of 1019 