SPEDH 3328: Teaching Math to Students with Severe and Persistent Diff. (3)SPEDH 3358: Advanced Reading Methods for Students with Severe and Persistent Diff. (3)SPEDS 3358: Access to General Education and Teaching Functional Academics (3) *Most courses are taught in sequence and have prerequisite courses.Disability StudiesDisability studies is an alternative major that is available only to special education (SPED) majors who discover theyare unable to complete required SPED pre-student teaching and/or student teaching capstone after it is too late tocomplete a different first major. This alternative is initiated by the director of undergraduate studies, withconsultation with SPED track directors and the Teacher Preparation Committee. Students completing the disabilitystudies degree do not choose a track.Honors in Peabody CollegeFounder's MedalLatin Honors DesignationDean's ListKappa Delta PiHonor Societies for FreshmenAwardsFounder’s MedalThe Founder’s Medal, signifying first honors, was endowed by Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt as one of his gifts tothe university. The recipient is named by the Dean after consideration of faculty recommendation and overallacademic achievements, as well as grade point averages of the year’s highest ranking summa cum laude graduates.Latin Honors DesignationHonors, which are noted on diplomas and published in the Commencement Program, are earned as follows: Summa Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the top 5 percent of the previousthree years’ graduating seniors.Magna Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 8 percent of the previousthree years’ graduating seniors.Cum Laude. Students whose grade point average equals or exceeds that of the next 12 percent of the previous threeyears’ graduating seniors.Dean’s ListThe Dean’s List recognizes outstanding academic performance in a semester. Students are named to the Dean’s Listwhen they earn a grade point average of at least 3.500 while carrying 12 or more graded hours, with no temporaryor missing grades in any course (credit or non-credit), and no grade of F.Kappa Delta PiKappa Delta Pi is an education honor society organized in 1911 at the University of Illinois to foster excellence inscholarship, high personal standards, improvement in teacher preparation, distinction in achievement, andcontributions to education. Membership is limited to juniors and seniors with a grade point average of 3.500 orbetter, and graduate students with a grade point average of 3.750 or better. Candidates for membership must havecompleted at least 9 hours in education or psychology.Page 286 of 1019 