Special Program in Peabody CollegePeabody Scholars ProgramFirst-year students who achieve academic distinction during their first semester at Vanderbilt are invited to apply tothe Peabody Scholars Program. The Peabody Scholars Honors Program was established to offer particularlypromising undergraduates at Peabody College opportunities for intellectual adventure, community service, andresearch. Emphasizing a theme of personal, professional, and civic creativity, the program is designed to fosterstudents’ potential by offering breadth through exposing students to a variety of academic and social experiencesand depth by engaging in service-learning and independent research. To graduate with honors through Peabody Scholars, scholars need to earn 24 points within the program. Scholarsearn points from a series of required components as well as optional enrichment programming. All freshmanPeabody Scholars participate in a 3-credit-hour Honors Seminar during the spring semester of their first year. In thesophomore year, scholars work together on a meaningful immersive service project in the local community. EachPeabody Scholar is offered a summer stipend (between sophomore and junior years) to support engagement in anindividual service or intensive research project (either domestic or abroad). In the junior year, scholars engage inindependent research projects with a faculty member. Senior scholars participate in both  scholarly and culturalevents. The Peabody Scholars Program also offers professional development, networking, and mentoring. The fulllist of current programming is available on the program website. In sum, the Peabody Scholars Program offers a richarray of enrichment experiences and opportunities. Peabody freshmen may apply for the Peabody Scholars Program in the fall of their first semester at Vanderbilt.Selections will be made prior to the beginning of the spring semester. To be accepted into the program, studentsmust have a first-semester GPA of 3.6. To remain in good standing in the program, students must maintain aminimum grade point average of 3.0. Further information on the Peabody Scholars Program may be obtained fromProfessor Megan Saylor in the Psychology and Human Development Department.Interdisciplinary MajorsLanguage and Literacy StudiesMathematics and Science Studies Natural Science StudiesMultilingual/Multicultural StudiesSocial Studies Peabody College, in conjunction with the College of Arts and Science, offers four interdisciplinary majors. Thesemajors are to be taken as second majors only and are constructed around academic disciplines particularlyappropriate for future teachers (except secondary), but are not limited to students entering teacher education. Theinterdisciplinary major consists of 36 hours of study and draws upon the academic resources of a number ofdepartments throughout the University. Students follow the Liberal Education Core requirements of their first major.Language and Literacy Studies (36 hours)COMMUNICATIONS.6 hours from:CMST 1500, Fundamentals of Public Speaking; CMST 1850 Interpersonal Communications ENGLISH.9 hours from:Page 248 of 1019 