Alternate Track (PBDY)Peabody: Occasionally students find that it will be necessary to reduce their normal load due to medical reasons,varsity athletics, or other circumstances. The result is that they will accomplish the bachelor of science degree innine or ten semesters instead of eight. In such cases, the student may request Alternate Track status. Afterdiscussing this option with their parents and faculty adviser, students petition the Associate Dean for UndergraduateAcademic Affairs for permission. This normally takes place during the sophomore year. Additional information isavailable by contacting the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Academic Affairs.Leave of Absence (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: A student desiring a leave of absence should obtain instructions from the Dean’s Office ofUndergraduate Education in the College of Arts and Science. All students who have completed one regular(fall/spring) semester at Vanderbilt are eligible, provided they have not been dropped by the university and are notdropped at the end of the semester during which application is made. Students may take a leave no more than twiceduring their career in the College of Arts and Science. Leaves are granted for one semester or for a year. Applications should be completed before the end of the fallsemester for a leave of absence during the spring semester, and before August 15 for a leave of absence during thefall semester (or for the academic year). If the leave is approved, the student must keep the Office of the UniversityRegistrar informed of any change of address while on leave. A student who takes a medical leave after mid-semester is expected to be on leave for the following regularsemester as well. A student who plans to return from medical leave must submit appropriate documentation to theDean’s Office of Undergraduate Education and the Office of Student Care Coordination. A student in good standing who seeks to transfer to Vanderbilt credit earned elsewhere while on leave of absencemust obtain permission in advance from the Office of Undergraduate Education. Requests for leave of absence forpurpose of semester study away may be allowed if the semester study-away institution is domestic to the student.Requests for leave of absence plus semester study away are not allowed if the semester study-away institution isinternational to the student. Registration information is emailed to students on leave of absence. A student failing to register at the conclusion ofthe stated leave will be withdrawn from the university and must apply for reinstatement. Blair: A student in good standing may, with the approval of the associate dean, take leave of absence for one or twosemesters. Application forms, available from the Blair Office of Academic Services, must be submitted by 1December for spring semester leave or by 1 May for fall semester. Students planning to study elsewhere while on leave (elective courses) must have prior approval if credits are to betransferable. Upon the student’s return, a performance examination during the first two weeks of the semester maybe needed to determine the student’s standing in the major performance area. Registration notifications are emailed to students on leave. A student failing to register at the conclusion of thestated leave will be withdrawn from the university and must apply for readmission. Students who have been on leave of absence and not enrolled for three or more semesters or who leave theuniversity while on academic probation must re-audition and achieve the approval of the associate dean prior toreadmission. Page 92 of 1019 