 Students receiving scholarships or grants as part of their financial aid packages (not honor scholarships) mustqualify for class standing in order to be considered for renewal each year. Students receiving federal aid areexpected to make satisfactory academic progress as outlined in the chapter on Financial Information. Engineering: Those students having honor scholarships are expected to maintain a 3.000 grade point averagewhile taking a minimum of 12 hours. Failure to maintain a 3.000 grade point average each year will result in thecancellation of the scholarship.Liberal Education Core Guidelines (PBDY)Peabody: Applicants to Peabody College will be required to take the SAT I or ACT writing test and the SAT IImathematics test. Students with majors in human and organizational development, cognitive studies, child studies,or child development do not need the SAT II mathematics test. For applicants applying for Fall 2022 entry,Vanderbilt is test optional. Scores from the ACT or SAT are not required to be considered for admission. Applicantswho want their test scores to be considered may self-report them on the application or may have official scores sentto Vanderbilt by the testing agency. Official test scores are required for students who applied with testing and whowere admitted and enroll. The following application of these scores will be made to the Peabody Liberal Education Core: Writing Requirement Before graduation, all Peabody students must successfully complete two writing courses and credit for the ENGL1100s. Writing-intensive courses either have a “W” after the course number (A&S courses) or end with the digit "7"(Peabody courses). To earn credit for ENGL 1100, students must complete one of the following:English 1100 SAT: Combined score of at least 1220 on the Writing and Critical Reasoning sections, with a minimum score of500 on each (test taken prior to March 2016).SAT: Score of at least 660 on the Evidence-Based Reading and Writing section, with a minimum score of 27on the Reading section and a minimum score of 28 on the Writing and Language section (test taken March2016 or later).ACT: Score of at least 27 on the English portion combined with a minimum score of 7 on the Writing portion(test taken prior to September 2015).ACT: Score of at least 27 on the English portion combined with a minimum score of 19 on the Writing portion(test taken between September 2015 and September 2016).ACT: Score of at least 30 on the English portion.AP: Minimum score of 4 on the English Language or English Literature exam.IB: Minimum score of 6 on the Higher level English A Literature or the Higher Level English A Language &Literature exam.Minimum score of 62 on the Tailwind Writing Skill and Reading Comprehension Proficiency Exam.First-year seminars (courses labeled 1111) offered through the College of Arts and Science and Blair School of Musicmay count as writing-intensive courses. Peabody freshmen may register for first-year seminars when openregistration begins if there are available seats in the course not reserved for Arts and Science students or Blairstudents. Peabody students are not required to take a First-year Writing Seminar. Mathematics Page 81 of 1019 