Honors ProgramThe Honors Program in child development offers qualified majors the opportunity to conduct individual researchprojects in collaboration with faculty members. This research experience culminates in the writing and publicpresentation of a senior thesis. Students who major in child development are eligible to apply for the HonorsProgram at the end of their sophomore year if they have an overall grade point average of at least 3.2 and at least a3.2 in child development courses. Students who complete the program successfully and who have a final grade point average of at least 3.2 willreceive Honors or Highest Honors in child development. The program should substantially aid those intending to dograduate work. More specific information concerning admission to and the requirements of the Honors Program isavailable from the director of the Honors Program, the director of undergraduate studies, or the departmenteducation coordinator.CurriculumStudents take a minimum of 120 hours, distributed as follows:Liberal Education Core Requirements. Minimum 40 hours.The Liberal Education Core is composed of required course work from the areas of Communications, Humanities,Mathematics, Science, Cultural Studies, Social Science, and Electives. Listings of all courses that may fulfill theseareas are located online in the Peabody Undergraduate Handbook (http://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php). A score of 5 on the AP Statistics exam will waive students from the Statistics Liberal Education Core requirement(applied to all PSYHD majors). A score of 5 on the AP Statistics exam will serve as a pre-requisite in all places thatPSY-PC 2110 currently serves as a pre-requisite.Writing RequirementSee the "Writing Requirement" section of the general Peabody academic policy section of the UndergraduateCatalog. NOTE: First-year Seminars (courses numbered 1111) offered through the College of Arts and Science and the BlairSchool of Music may count as writing intensive courses. Peabody freshmen may only register for First-year Seminarswhen open registration begins.Major Requirements. 30 hours.Students take a minimum of 30 hours in child development. The core consists of seven courses (21 hours) indevelopmental areas, epochs, and methods, and a minimum of three additional courses (9 hours) in an elective areaof specialization.Major Core. 21 hours.PSY-PC 1250. Developmental PsychologyPSY-PC 2250. Cognitive Aspects of Human DevelopmentPSY-PC 2400. Social and Personality DevelopmentPSY-PC 2120. Statistical Analysis One of the following two courses:PSY-PC 2500. InfancyPSY-PC 2550. Adolescent Development Page 255 of 1019 