 f. Perspectives — P (1 course)Courses in Perspectives give significant attention to individual and cultural diversity, multicultural interactions,sexual orientation, gender, racial, ethical, and religious issues within a culture across time or between cultures,thereby extending the principles and methods associated with the liberal arts to the broader circumstances in whichstudents live. These courses emphasize the relationship of divergent ethics and moral values to contemporary socialissues and global conflicts.  The MajorAll students must successfully complete a course of study leading to one of the approved major programs in theCollege of Arts and Science, or successfully complete an individually designed interdisciplinary major designed inconsultation with College of Arts and Science faculty and approved by the Committee on Individual Programs in theCollege of Arts and Science. AXLE Curriculum Course DistributionThe distribution of Arts and Science courses into AXLE categories is available in YES. Using the advanced-class-search dialog box, use the pull-down menu under “Class Attributes” to select an AXLE category. AXLE, the Major, and the Optional MinorCourses used to satisfy requirements of AXLE may also be used to satisfy requirements of the major or the optionalminor. Advanced Placement under AXLEWith the exception of basic English composition and the foreign language proficiency requirements, no AXLErequirement may be fulfilled with any form of advanced placement credit (AP, IB, A-level, etc.). Transfer Credit under AXLEGenerally, only courses taken in the College of Arts and Science may be used toward AXLE; however, any collegecourse credit earned prior to graduation from high school, and transfer credit earned before admission toVanderbilt, may be used toward fulfilling AXLE requirements. Area of ConcentrationDuring the junior and senior years, much of the student’s work is concentrated in one large unit of intellectuallyrelated courses. The program of concentration may be arranged through a single major, an interdisciplinary major,or a double major. Each of the three options is described below. A triple major may be declared with the approval ofthe Administrative Committee. Major FieldUnder this plan, the student majors in one of the recognized fields. There shall not be fewer than 27 credit hours inthe major field, but a given department may require up to 48 credit hours. Students may take more than therequired number of credit hours in any major; any given department, however, may limit the total permissible creditPage 109 of 1019 