Required Core: (15 hours)EDUC 3730, ELL Educ Foundations – 3 hoursEDUC 3740, English Language Learner Methods and Materials – 3 hoursEDUC 3742, Practicum: Multilingual Learners – 3 hours    EDUC 3750, Linguistics and Language Acquisition for English Language Learner Teachers  – 3 hoursEDUC 3760, Assessment of English Language Learners – 3 hours   Human and Organizational DevelopmentMajor in Human and Organizational DevelopmentCurriculumHonors ProgramThe Minor in Human and Organizational DevelopmentPotential Peabody Second Majors CHAIR Nicole E. AllenASSOCIATE CHAIR Nicole A. CobbDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES Brian D. ChristensDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Leigh Z. GilchristMajor in Human and Organizational DevelopmentThe Human and Organizational Development (HOD) major prepares students to address complex social problems inorganizations and communities. The HOD curriculum challenges students to view human problems and theirsolutions in organizations and communities. The HOD curriculum challenges students to view human problems andtheir solutions as embedded in broader social ecological systems. HOD coursework draws on a range of disciplinaryperspectives (e.g., psychology, organizational studies, sociology, political science, anthropology, geography,economics), and explores societal issues across distinct levels of analysis (e.g., individual, group, organization,community, policy, international). HOD coursework engages students through active learning approaches involvingteams, simulations, case studies, field experiences, and interaction with academic researchers and professionals inthe field. These experiences support the development of the following HOD Core Competencies that will helpstudents succeed in people-oriented organizational roles: 1. Written communication - with emphasis on developing a clear, concise, expository style and mastering thepractical forms used in professional situations.2. Oral presentation - with emphasis on making informative and persuasive presentations with the effective useof technology and media.3. Analytic and critical thinking - with emphasis on data-driven analysis, creativity, and systems thinking torecognize, define and work to solve personal, professional, organizational, and social problems.4. Interpersonal communication - with emphasis on inquiry, advocacy, leadership, and conflict resolution skills.5. Collaborative work behaviors - with emphasis on motivating others, managing talent, and teamwork.HOD requirements consist of the Peabody Liberal Education Core and HOD Major Requirements, plus the successfulcompletion of an HOD capstone experience. Peabody Liberal Education Core The Liberal Education Core provides students with a strong liberal arts foundation. It is composed of requiredcoursework from the areas of Communications, Humanities, Quantitative Analysis, Natural Science, Social Science,and Electives. Listings of all courses that may fulfill these areas are located online in the Peabody UndergraduateHandbook (peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php). In addition, students must complete twowriting intensive courses. See the "Writing Requirement" section of the general Peabody academic policy section ofPage 274 of 1019 
the Undergraduate Catalog. HOD Major Requirements Human and Organizational Development Professional Core (15 hours): The HOD Core introduces students toecological systems thinking, theories of human, group, community, organizational, and policy development, andquantitative & qualitative approaches to research and problem solving. Professional core courses are designed tohelp students:1. Understand the basic principles and typical patterns of human development across the life span and use thisknowledge to understand their own behavior and the behavior of others;2. Understand the principles of group dynamics and use this knowledge to provide leadership and facilitatedecision making in small group and team settings;3. Understand theories of organizations and apply them to the solution of organizational problems;4. Understand the critical role that community contexts play in shaping individual, group, and organizationalwell-being;5. Apply quantitative and qualitative methods of systematic inquiry and analysis;6. Understand public policy processes and the factors that influence policy making;7. Understand the ethical dimensions of personal and organizational decisions and apply this understanding toanalyze social issues and make professional and personal decisions;8. Develop enhanced skills of synthesis including the ability to integrate ideas from various sources and todesign innovative programs.9. Understand and engage in practices and policies that ensure inclusion of diverse populations andperspectives.The program design will endow you with the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in a people-orientedorganizational role. Human and Organizational Development Domains: Domain courses build on the foundational courses in the HODProfessional Core. Students will choose courses that will help them develop breadth and depth across levels ofanalysis in topic areas of interest. Students must complete two courses in each of the following three domains:    Individual/Interpersonal Domain: Courses in this domain delve deeper into personal and professional developmentand explore topics, including but not limited to, leadership, professional ethics, youth development, professional   development, and mental health and well-being. Through these courses students will develop professional skills indata management, research, individual and team leadership, human-centered design, and interpersonal conflictresolution.    Organizational/Group Domain: Courses in this domain explore recent advances in organizational theory andinnovative management strategies in for-profit, non-profit, and public sector organizations in the U.S. andinternational contexts.    Course topics include, but are not limited to organizational effectiveness, organizationalchange management, and social entrepreneurship. Courses use case studies and practical application to preparestudents to engage organizational    challenges in an increasingly complex and dynamic world.    Community/Policy Domain: Courses in this domain invite students to critically examine the causes andconsequences of complex social problems from a systems perspective and explore community- and policy-levelapproaches to change    and intervention. Courses address a range of local and global topics and consider thediverse perspectives of marginalized communities. These topics include, but are not limited to educational equity,environmental justice and    sustainability, violence prevention, and economic development, as well as  poverty-related challenges such as fair and affordable housing, employment, health disparities, transportation,neighborhood safety, and resource provision. Human and Organizational Development Capstone: (12 credit hours/Summer or 15 credit hours/Fall or SpringPage 275 of 1019 