enrolled in the Army ROTC program are provided textbooks and uniforms at no expense. Contracted non-scholarship students also receive the monthly stipend $420. For more information, see the website atgoarmy.com/rotc.html. Summer training. Students have the opportunity to attend several training events over the summer. Advanced Camp — This five-week leadership exercise at Fort Knox, Kentucky, is a commissioning requirement. Thisis normally done between the junior and senior years. Travel, room, and board are provided free, and cadets arepaid approximately $700. Cultural Understanding and Language Program (CULP) Internships — Students are encouraged to spend a semester,special or summer session in academic studies abroad if feasible. Special incentives are available to further attractqualified students to these valuable programs. Cadet Troop and Leadership Training Internships (CTLT) — CTLT Internships are leadership developmentopportunities for students who are placed with military organizations throughout the world to gain perspective andunderstanding on the role of the military officer. Cadet Professional Field Training (CPFT) — Airborne, Air Assault, Mountain Warfare, Robin Sage (U.S. SpecialForces), Helicopter Flight Training, and Sapper. Other training opportunities exist for qualified applicants who are interested. Commissioning and career opportunities. A commission in the U.S. Army is a distinctive honor earned through hardwork, demonstrated commitment, and a desire to serve the nation. Post-graduate military education, usuallystarting within six months of graduation and commissioning and continuing through the officer’s service career,begins with the basic officer leadership course followed by officer basic course that qualify new lieutenants in theirspecific branch of service. Education delays are available for critical specialties requiring postgraduate civilianeducation such as law and medical degrees. Course credit. During the four-year program, Army ROTC students complete eight courses of military science plusassociated labs. Academic credit varies by university. Vanderbilt University College Credit: All AROTC courses count toward elective credit. See course descriptions below. Information. Inquiries regarding enrollment in the Army ROTC program should be made to the Army ROTCAdmissions Officer at (615) 322-8550 or (800) 288-7682 (1-800-VUROTC). Also see vanderbilt.edu/army. Military Science DepartmentCOMMANDING OFFICER Christine N. KendziorMILITARY INSTRUCTORS Christine N. Kendzior, Jermaine Denny, Ethan OrrMilitary Science CoursesPage 27 of 1019 