register to audit the course. Forms are available from the School of Engineering Office of Academic Services. Nopermanent record is kept of the audit. Regular students may audit one class each semester. Peabody: Regularly enrolled Peabody College students who want to audit courses in any of the undergraduateschools of the university must obtain the written consent of the instructor to attend the class but do not register forthe course for credit. Forms are available online: peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php. Nopermanent record is kept of the audit. Regular students may audit one class each semester free of charge. In orderto audit a course, the student must also be enrolled in at least one additional graded credit hour in the samesemester.Independent Study (A&S, Blair, PBDY)Arts & Science: Independent study and directed study courses are intended primarily for students in their juniorand senior years. Students may not take an independent study or directed study course that duplicates a regularcourse being offered in the same semester. Juniors or seniors who wish to take independent study or directed studycourses must use the following procedure:1. Students may initiate the independent study enrollment process in YES by clicking on the Individual Study linkon the student landing page.2. Students must be registered in the independent study before the end of the change period.Blair: Students must obtain permission to enroll in Independent Study from the instructor of their choice prior toregistration. Independent Study authorization forms are available at blair.vanderbilt.edu/academics. The instructor’ssignature on the authorization form indicates a willingness to supervise the Independent Study project. A contract orstudy plan, approved by the instructor in consultation with the appropriate department chair and the associatedean, must be submitted to the Blair Office of Academic Services by the tenth calendar day after classes begin. If noplan is submitted, the student will be dropped from Independent Study. An Independent Study project should resultin a substantial written report, paper, or lecture/recital. The report, recording, or some physical manifestation of theproject should be retained by the instructor. Independent Study projects proposed by students for cross-schoolregistration should be approved through the mechanisms of both schools. Consult associate deans from bothschools for guidance. A student may register for a maximum of 3 hours in Independent Study in a semester. A student may count a totalof 6 hours in Independent Study toward the degree. A faculty member may supervise no more than four studentsper semester in Independent Study projects. Independent Study cannot substitute for courses which are part of the curriculum. Peabody: Independent study courses, ranging from zero to three hours of credit, are listed in the Schedule ofCourses and are intended for students in their junior and senior years. Students wanting to undertake anindependent study must follow these guidelines:1. Students must be in academic “good standing” (may not be on probation or Leave of Absence).2. Students must arrange the independent study with a Vanderbilt full time faculty member who has agreed tosupervise and grade this course.3. Students may enroll for up to 3 hours of independent study in one semester.4. Students must make a study plan detailing the nature of the project and the amount of credit. The IndividualLearning/Directed Study contract must be approved by the instructor and the department chair (or the chair’sdesignee) by the last day of the change period.5. Registration for the course occurs when the completed Individual Learning/Directed Study contract issubmitted to the Peabody Office of Academic Services. Registration for an independent study will not beallowed after the change period has ended.Students may not repeat independent study courses for grade replacement.Minimum Graded Credit Hours (A&S)Arts & Science: A course may not be dropped without authorization of the Administrative Committee or anPage 65 of 1019 