Honors Program in Asian StudiesStudents interested in the Honors Program in Asian Studies should consult with Asian Studies department chair orthe director of undergraduate studies no later than the fall semester of their junior year to discuss qualifications andrequirements. In addition to following the requirements set by the College of Arts and Science, the following mustbe satisfied:1. All of the requirements for the major in Asian studies.2. 3 credit hours of ASIA 3980 Juniors Honors Readings. If ASIA 3980 is not offered, this requirement may besubstituted by an alternative course, with approval by the Asian Studies department chair or the director ofundergraduate studies.3. ASIA 4998 (3 credit hours) and 4999 (3 credit hours). Honors Research must be taken while in residence atVanderbilt. The candidate will write an honors thesis while completing the two-semester Honors Researchsequence. The honors thesis is a research paper or creative production on a topic defined by the student inconsultation with a principal faculty adviser. At least two Asian Studies departmental or interdepartmentalfaculty, including the principal faculty advisor, serve as the candidate’s Honors Committee. The committeeassesses on-going progress on the thesis and administers the oral examination.   Note: 3980, 4998, and 4999 may count toward the 36 credit hours required for the major.4. A minimum 3.30 cumulative grade point average with a minimum 3.50 grade point average in courses thatcount toward the major in Asian Studies upon completion of the Honors requirements.5. An oral examination on the thesis typically scheduled within the two months prior to graduation.   Study abroad in a country relevant to the Honors Research project is strongly recommended, but not required.Minor in Asian StudiesThe minor in Asian Studies provides a broad knowledge of the languages, literatures, politics, histories, film andmedia, arts, and religions of China, Japan, Korea, and South Asia. Students cannot combine the Asian Studies minorwith other minors within the Asian Studies Department. For the minor in Asian Studies, students must complete at least 17 credit hours from the Asian Studies Course List(see below), according to these rules:1. At least 5 credit hours in any Asian languages taught in the Asian Studies Department at the 2201(Intermediate I) level or above2. At least 6 credit hours of History Survey Courses3. At least 3 credit hours of Humanities Courses4. At least 3 credit hours of Social Sciences Courses5. No more than 5 credit hours of any Asian language courses taught in the Asian Studies Department may beapplied to the total 17 credit hoursMinor in Chinese Language and CultureThe minor in Chinese Language and Culture is anchored by a firm foundation in language study that iscomplemented by electives in art, history, literature, film and media, politics, and religion. Students cannot combinethe Chinese Language and Culture minor with other minors within the Asian Studies Department. For the minor in Chinese Language and Culture, students must complete at least 18 total credit hours in ChinaConcentration (CC) courses from the Asian Studies Course List (see below), according to these rules:1. At least 3 credit hours in Chinese language at the 3301 (Advanced I) level or above2. No more than 13 credit hours of Chinese language (CHIN) courses may be applied to the total 18 credit hoursMinor in Japanese Language and CultureThe minor in Japanese Language and Culture is anchored by a firm foundation in language study that iscomplemented by electives in art, history, literature, film and media, politics, and religion. Students cannot combinethe Japanese Language and Culture minor with other minors within the Asian Studies Department. Page 300 of 1019 