RLST 4834, Post-Freudian Theories and ReligionSOC 3301, Society and MedicineSOC 3304, Race, Gender, and HealthSOC 3306, Gender and Medical Work In order to graduate with a major in MHS, students must take a written exam in the second semester of their senioryear. (Students who are away during the second semester of their senior year because they are studying abroad orgraduating early should schedule the exam during the first semester.) The exam is not graded and no grade willappear on the student’s transcript. The purpose of the exam is to ascertain the extent to which MHS majorsdemonstrate knowledge of the MHS curriculum.Honors ProgramThe Honors Program in Medicine, Health, and Society offers superior students a more intensive concentration withintheir major field. Admission to the program requires:1. A 3.3 cumulative grade point average.2. A 3.3 cumulative grade point average in courses that count toward the Medicine, Health, and Society major.3. An application that (a) describes the proposed topic; (b) identifies the faculty member who will serve as thethesis adviser; and (c) includes a letter of recommendation from the proposed thesis adviser.Completion of the program requires:1. Two semesters, 3 credit hours each semester of the senior year in MHS 4998/4999.2. An honors thesis of approximately fifty pages that reveals an interdisciplinary perspective, submitted no laterthan two weeks before the first day of final exams in the second semester of the senior year, and approvedby a committee of at least two faculty members (one of whom must have their primary appointment inMedicine, Health, and Society).3. Successful completion of an oral examination focusing on the topic of the thesis.Minor in Medicine, Health, and SocietyThe minor consists of a minimum of 18 credit hours of course work, distributed as follows:Note: No more than 9 credit hours may be in the same subject area; A&S Psychology and Peabody Psychology areconsidered the same subject area for purposes of the major/minor.1. Core Courses — Students must complete one of the core courses of the major (3 credit hours).2. Concentration — Students must complete three courses in one of the following five concentrations (9 credithours). Students must declare one of the following concentrations when they declare the minor.A. Global healthB. Health policies and economiesC. Health behaviors and health sciencesD. Inequality, intersectionality, and health justiceE. Medicine, humanities, and arts3. Electives — Two additional courses, excluding those with an asterisk, chosen from the list of approvedcourses. (6 credit hours)4. Disciplinary Requirement — At least 3 credit hours from the following courses must be used to satisfy theconcentration requirement or electives requirement.ANTH 2213W, Food, Identity, and CultureANTH 3143, Medical AnthropologyANTH 3141, Anthropology of HealingANTH 3345, Genetics in SocietyECON 2350, Health Care PolicyPage 428 of 1019 