Other Electives CHAIR Tiffany PattersonDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Claudine TaaffeDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES Gilman W. WhitingProfessors, Emeriti: Houston Baker, Hector MyersProfessors: Michael Dyson, David Ikard, Tracy D. Sharpley-Whiting, Gilman W. WhitingAssociate Professors: Brandon Byrd, Tiffany PattersonAssistant Professor: Matthew JosephPrincipal Senior Lecturer: Claudine TaaffeWriter in Residence: Alice Randall COURSES OFFERED: AADS The concentration in African American and Diaspora Studies requires 36 credit hours of course work. Approvedcourses taken at Fisk University may be counted as electives in the program. The course of study in the AfricanAmerican and Diaspora Studies program is divided into three areas: Area of Study I, Gender and Sexuality; Area ofStudy II, Literature, Theory, and Visual Culture; and Area of Study III, Social Sciences. Courses that satisfy each areaare listed under “Areas of Study and Electives” below.Program of Concentration in African American and Diaspora StudiesRequirements for the major include at least 36 hours of credit as follows:1. 3 credit hours from 1010, Introduction to African American and Diaspora Studies.2. 6 credit hours from Area of Study I, Gender and Sexuality.3. 6 credit hours from Area of Study II, Literature, Theory, and Visual Culture.4. 6 credit hours from Area of Study III, Social Sciences.5. 12 credit hours of electives chosen from Areas of Study I, II, and III, not used to satisfy requirements 2through 4 above.6. 3 credit hours in either 4978 (fall) or 4979 (spring), Senior Thesis in African American and Diaspora Studies.At least 6 credit hours of the concentration must focus on the Americas (outside of the United States) and/or Africa.No more than 9 credit hours of course work may be taken at the 1000 level (excluding 1010).Honors ProgramThe only route to honors in the major is writing a 3-credit hour Senior Honors Thesis in AADS 4998 (fall) or 4999(spring) and passing an oral examination. Admission to the Honors Program requires a student have a grade pointaverage of at least 3.5 in all AADS courses and a cumulative GPA of 3.3. A committee of three faculty members (twoof whom must be involved in undergraduate teaching in the African American and Diaspora Studies program) willevaluate the thesis. Students pursuing the Senior Honors Thesis may apply to the program for nominal funding toassist with research projects. The chair of the student’s thesis committee and two readers must attend the oralexamination. The oral defense will typically take place in the second semester of the student’s senior year.Minor in African American and Diaspora StudiesRequirements for completion of the minor include at least 21 credit hours as follows:1. 3 credit hours in 1010, Introduction to African American and Diaspora Studies. 2. 3 credit hours from Area of Study I, Gender and Sexuality.3. 3 credit hours from Area of Study II, Literature, Theory, and Visual Culture.4. 3 credit hours from Area of Study III, Social Sciences.Page 290 of 1019 