PPS: All three-credit-hour courses approved for the Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy in Public PolicyStudies.SOC: All three-credit-hour courses approved for the Environmental Sociology Core in Sociology.Honors ProgramHonors in CSET is a selective program of individual undergraduate work, supervised by a faculty adviser. Honorscandidates propose, construct, and complete a project (written, visual, aural, digital, or a combination) thatdemonstrates the ability to communicate science, in depth, to a nonexpert audience.Requirements for Admission to Honors in CSETTo be admitted to the Honors Program in CSET, a student mustbe a CSET major;have completed at least 21 credit hours of work that counts toward the CSET major;have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0;have a GPA of at least 3.40 in all courses that count toward the CSET major.secure a faculty adviser and submit a proposal of the planned Honors project to the Director.Requirements for Completion of Honors in CSETTo earn Honors or Highest Honors in CSET, a student mustcomplete the requirements of the CSET major;complete at least 6 credit hours of work in any combination of CSET 3840, 3841, and 4998, of which at least 3credit hours must be in CSET 4998;present a written and oral defense of the CSET 4998 project before a faculty examination committee;have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0;have a GPA of at least 3.40 in all courses that count toward the CSET major.Course of Study for Honors in CSETInterested students may apply in the fall or spring of their junior year or the fall of the senior year. The applicationincludes a one- to two-page proposal of the planned Honors project and the signature of the faculty member whowill be the project adviser. The faculty adviser does not need to be a member of the CSET faculty. An Honors candidate must pass an oral examination of the Honors project no later than the final week of classes inthe students final semester. The examination committee is composed of the Honors project supervisor and twoadditional faculty members; at least one member of the examination committee must be a faculty memberaffiliated with the CSET program. The oral examination is public and should take approximately one hour, includingtime for questions from members of the committee. The faculty examination committee will determine by majorityvote whether the student has earned Honors and whether said student should receive Honors or, for exceptionalachievement, Highest Honors. Highest Honors is reserved for students whose projects are of dissemination qualityand whose oral examinations are completed at the highest level.Minor in Communication of Science and TechnologyThe minor in Communication of Science and Technology consists of six courses, totaling a minimum of 18 credithours, distributed as follows:1. CSET Core (requirement #1 of the Standard Track);2. One Telling Scientific Stories course (as defined in requirement #2 of the Standard Track);3. One Bridging the Sciences and Humanities course (as defined in requirement #3 of the Standard Track);4. One three-credit-hour natural science course (as defined in requirement #4 of the Standard Track).Additional notes for the minor in CSET:Students in the College of Arts and Science must count at least 15 credit hours for the minor in CSET that arenot also used to fulfill any program requirements for any other major or minor in the College of Arts andScience.A course can be used only once to fulfill a single CSET requirement, even if it is eligible under more than oneCSET requirement.Page 352 of 1019 