TheatreTibetan Language    Blair School of MusicMusic at VanderbiltFacilitiesThe Blair Concert SeriesBlair Academy at Vanderbilt The Blair School of Music focuses on the personal and professional education of highly talented young musicianswho demonstrate an exceptional capacity and motivation to shape our increasingly diverse and complex globalcentury—through music, with music, and in music. Our unique “Blair Experience” builds on the very foundation of methods, repertories, and ensembles shared by theworld's most competitive schools of music and conservatories but goes well beyond that, immersing students in thetransformative spaces of a world-class research university committed to inclusive excellence with distinction inareas ranging from theology to science, arts to engineering, humanities to business, and education tolaw. Graduates of the Blair School are recognized as superior artists and scholars distinguished by their globalmindsets, broad interdisciplinary competencies, and unyielding commitments to advocacy, entrepreneurship, andeducation. The Blair School has been an integral part of Nashville’s musical environment since its founding in 1964 by the Justinand Valere Potter Foundation through a bequest of Valere Blair Potter. In 1981 the school was merged withVanderbilt following the university’s decision to develop an excellent program in music. Studies leading to theprofessional bachelor of music in performance were initiated in 1986. The Bachelor of Music degree program includes majors in performance, composition, jazz studies, and integratedstudies. The performance major is available in any orchestral instrument, piano, saxophone, euphonium, and voice.The major in composition emphasizes analytical skills as well as the development of students’ creativity. The jazzstudies major offers a focus on American and non-Western music traditions while also developing the corefundamentals of Western music common to all Blair majors. The integrated studies major combines the study ofcomposition or a performance area with an additional concentration in music and forms the basis for a five-yearprogram in teacher education offered cooperatively with Peabody College. In the Bachelor of Musical Arts degreeprogram, composers and performers complete an in-depth music study in addition to a field outside of music. A non-professional 31-hour liberal arts music major makes it possible for students outside the Blair School to choosemusic as a second major. Students in other schools and colleges of the university also may pursue a minor in music,music composition, musicology/ethnomusicology, or music performance. And Blair offers a remarkable variety ofelectives for students who wish to enrich their studies with credit in music courses, ensembles, or performanceinstruction, or to select music as an extracurricular activity. Page 128 of 1019 