Scholarships. Students can earn scholarships in several ways. Four-year scholarships are determined by nationalcompetition among high school  seniors and graduates. Based on the national ranking, students may be awarded ascholarship that covers full tuition. To be eligible, applicants must  have less than 30 semester hours of collegecredit. College Program students can also be nominated for three- and two-year scholarships by the  NROTC unit.These nominations are based on the students’ academic and military performance at the college level. Sophomoresnot enrolled in the  College Program are eligible to apply for the two-year NROTC scholarship program. This is anational competition and application is made through the  NROTC unit.Service obligation. For most students at the beginning of their sophomore year, should they choose to continue withthe NROTC program, Navy option scholarship students incur a minimum service obligation of five years active duty,and Marine option scholarship students incur a minimum service  obligation of four years of active duty, to beserved upon graduation or withdrawal from the program. College Program students incur a three-year  active dutycommitment upon graduation or withdrawal from the program. Additional requirements may be required for specificjob assignments.  Summer training. Summer training for three to four weeks is conducted aboard naval vessels and naval shorestations after each of the first three  academic years. Scholarship students are normally required to participate eachyear. All scholarship and College Program midshipmen are required to  participate in summer training prior to theirfinal academic year.Course credit. During the four-year program, NROTC Navy-option students are required to complete eight courses(24 hours) of naval science, and Marine-option students are required to complete six courses (18 hours) of navalscience. Academic credit awarded varies by course and is outlined in the course descriptions below. Required Courses for Navy/Marine Scholarship. The following courses are required for students on scholarship:Calculus (Navy option only) (6 credits minimum): Mathematics 1200–1201, or 1300–1301 completed by theend of the sophomore year.Physics (Navy option only) (6 credits): 1501–1502 or 1601–1602 completed by the end of the junior year.English (6 credits): Two semesters of any English course or courses containing a designated writingcomponent.American History/National Security Policy (3 credits): Contact the Naval ROTC unit for a listing of coursesfulfilling this requirement.World Culture/Regional Studies (Navy option only) (3 credits): Contact the Naval ROTC unit for a listing ofcourses fulfilling this requirement.Information. Inquiries regarding enrollment in the Naval ROTC program should be made to the Naval ROTC unitrecruiting officer at (615) 322-2671, or by contacting a local Navy or Marine Corps recruiting station. Admission to the program is open to both men and women. Physical qualification to Naval Service standards isrequired. Naval ScienceCOMMANDING OFFICER Aaron BucklesEXECUTIVE OFFICER Brian FremmingNAVAL INSTRUCTORS Arthur Busick, Renny IgnacioMARINE INSTRUCTOR Kenneth St Cyr Naval Science CoursesPage 31 of 1019 