SENIOR YEARMS-PC 4150. Leadership and Ethics. Students develop proficiency in planning, executing, and assessingcomplex operations, functioning as a member of a staff, and providing leadership-performance feedback tosubordinates. Students are given situational opportunities to assess risk, make sound ethical decisions, and providecoaching and mentoring to fellow ROTC Cadets. Prerequisite: MS-PC 3120. [3] MS-PC 4150L. Leadership and Ethics Lab. MS-PC 4150L builds upon MS-PC 4150 and MS-PC 3120L. The lab isbroken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personal development, 4)professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During the lab we will focus onindividual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams and groups insituational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [1] MS-PC 4160. Leadership in a Complex World. Students develop proficiency in leadership and managementskills required of junior officers serving in military companies. The course further explores the dynamics of leading incomplex situations of the contemporary operating environment and applies a cultural lens to problem solving.Students continue to gain leadership experience through situational opportunities, organizational projects, andcoaching and mentoring fellow ROTC Cadets. MS-PC 4160L. Leadership in a Complex World Lab. MS-PC 4160L builds upon MS-PC 4160 and MS-PC 4150L.The lab is broken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personaldevelopment, 4) professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During the lab we willfocus on individual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams andgroups in situational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [1]Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps (NROTC)Naval ScienceNaval Science Courses  The Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) unit at Vanderbilt conducts the Naval Officer Education program.Challenging academic courses and experience-building events prepare a select group of highly accomplishedstudents for the opportunity to serve their country as a Navy or Marine Corps officer and receive an education. Theprimary focus of the NROTC program is to develop the most capable leaders possible by building upon the academicstrength of Vanderbilt and providing essential military and leadership education. Students participate in the NROTC unit in the scholarship program, the college program, or the naval scienceprogram. College Program students take the prescribed naval science course each semester, participate weekly innaval science lab, and engage in summer training programs after each academic year. The NROTC College Programis identical to the scholarship program except for tuition financial benefit and that students only participate insummer training upon completion of their junior academic year. Also, any Vanderbilt student may take any or all ofthe naval science courses without participating in naval science lab or summer training. Scholarship students receive tuition, fees, uniforms, $375 per semester for textbooks, and a monthly stipendbeginning at $250 for freshmen and increasing to $400 for seniors. Vanderbilt may provide scholarship studentswith up to a $6,000-per-year stipend toward room and board. College Program students are provided uniforms,textbooks for naval science courses, and a monthly stipend of $350 upon commencement of their junior year withapproval by higher authority based on academic performance and military aptitude.Page 30 of 1019 