Education and Human Development at VanderbiltGeorge Peabody College for Teachers, recognized for more than a century as one of the foremost independentcolleges of teacher education, merged with Vanderbilt University in the summer of 1979 to become VanderbiltUniversity’s Peabody College of education and human development. Since then, Peabody College has retained itsheritage while achieving new stature as a place where world-class research is conducted and translated intoteaching, practice, policy, and service. Peabody's mission is characterized by practice-oriented academic programs,a strong service ethic, groundbreaking research, and a pressing concern for addressing social problems in domesticand international contexts. The college’s faculty and students constitute a vibrant intellectual community answering pressing questions andexpanding knowledge about PreK–12 and higher education, including special education; psychology, especiallyfocused on families and children; the development of individuals and organizations; and educational administration,leadership, and policy. Peabody College understands the preparation of researchers, teachers, and leaders asamong the most important things it does, and that building and sustaining an engaged academic community oflearners is central to achieving its mission. Peabody faculty and students engage in a broad spectrum of basic and applied research to generate newknowledge and translate that knowledge into practice. Current research findings inform classroom teaching atPeabody in every program. Moreover, Peabody faculty bring an interdisciplinary and entrepreneurial spirit to theresearch enterprise. Working collaboratively, often through one of the college’s research centers, faculty and students publish andpresent their findings, apply them in real-world settings, and help to shape public debate about the nature andfuture of education and human development. The college is devoted to enhancing opportunity in an increasingly diverse society. More than 1,900 students areenrolled at Peabody, with more than one-third of them in post-baccalaureate graduate or professional degreeprograms. All teacher education programs are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Education Preparation (CAEP).Counseling programs are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related EducationPrograms (CACREP).Centers and Outreach EffortsFor more information about Peabody College's Centers and Outreach Efforts, please see here:https://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/research/research-centers.Next Steps at Vanderbilt UniversityNext Steps at Vanderbilt is a four-year, nonresidential certification program for students with intellectual anddevelopmental disabilities, providing individualized programs of study in the areas of education, social skills, andvocational training. Next steps is a comprehensive transition program designated by the U.S. Department ofEducation. This status recognizes the program's merits and allows eligible students to apply for federal financial aidfor tuition assistance. Learn more here: https://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/nextsteps. 
Page 242 of 1019 