Arts & Science: A period is designated in each semester during which continuing students, after consultation withtheir advisers, register for work to be taken during the next term. The student’s adviser must release the advisinghold in YES before the student can register. Students are asked to plan their immediate and long-range educational programs with their advisers beforeregistering and to consult their advisers when they make changes in their registration. Students not meeting specified tuition payment deadlines are not permitted to register. See the chapter on FinancialInformation for details.Before registering, students should check their own records carefully with respect to the following items:1. AXLE requirements;2. Major requirements;3. Requirements of any optional minor(s) sought;4. Course prerequisites.Blair: Registration is available to entering first-year students in June. Continuing students register on datesspecified each semester in the University Calendar and as assigned in “YES” (Your EnrollmentServices, yes.vanderbilt.edu). Conferences with faculty advisers are required before students may register. Detailedinformation on registration is available on the University Registrarwebsite, registrar.vanderbilt.edu/registration/registration-info.php. Prior to registration, students should refer to thesample curriculum plans in the Blair Student Handbook. Records and the degree audit should be checked regarding progress toward completing the following:1. Music core2. Liberal arts core3. Additional major area requirementsA student whose registration choices are denied or altered (full or cancelled class, lack of prerequisite courses, etc.)may select alternate courses during the Open Enrollment registration period. Engineering: A period is designated in each semester during which continuing students, after consultation withtheir advisers, register for work to be taken during the next term. Students can access their registrationappointment times and the registration system via YES (Your Enrollment Services) at yes.vanderbilt.edu.Normal Course Load (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: Each semester, regular tuition is charged on the basis of a normal course load of 12 to 18semester hours. No more than 18 or fewer than 12 credit hours may be taken in any one semester withoutauthorization of the Administrative Committee or an associate dean in 350 Buttrick Hall. (There is an extra chargefor more than 18 credit hours at the current hourly rate.) First-year students may not take more than 18 credit hoursin a semester. Students permitted to take fewer than 12 credit hours are placed on probation, unless their light load is necessarybecause of outside employment or illness. During the summer session, there is no minimum course load. Summerloads exceeding 14 credit hours must be authorized by an associate dean in 350 Buttrick Hall. Credit hours are semester hours; e.g., a three-hour course carries credit of 3 semester hours. One semester credithour represents at least three hours of academic work per week, on average, for one semester. Academic workincludes, but is not necessarily limited to, lectures, laboratory work, homework, research, class readings,independent study, internships, practica, studio work, recitals, practicing, rehearsing, and recitations. SomeVanderbilt courses may have requirements that exceed this definition.Page 59 of 1019 