 A student must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 credit hours to be classified as a full-time student. Blair: Tuition is charged on the basis of a normal course load of 12 to 18 semester hours. Course loads outside thenorm, which must be recommended by the student’s adviser and approved by the associate dean, are charged atan hourly tuition rate. Students who enroll in fewer than 12 hours are placed on probation, unless their underload isnecessary because of outside employment or illness. The maximum course load for the summer session is 12 hours(6 hours for a summer half-session). A student must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 hours to be classified as a full-time student. Engineering: Each semester, regular tuition is charged on the basis of a normal course load of 12 to 18 semesterhours. No more than 18 or fewer than 12 hours may be taken in any one semester without authorization from thesenior associate dean.There is an extra charge for more than 18 hours at the current hourly rate. Students permitted to take fewer than12 hours are placed on probation, unless their light load is necessary because of illness or outside employment andis approved by the senior associate dean. A student must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 hours to be classified as afull-time student. Peabody: A student must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 hours to be classified as a full-time student. Studentswishing to carry more than 18 hours must obtain the approval of the Associate Dean for Undergraduate AcademicAffairs. All undergraduate students are assumed to be full-time students for the purpose of administering probationand retention policies. A student who for reasons of health, family, or outside employment wishes to enroll inPeabody as a part-time student must obtain permission from the Associate Dean for Undergraduate AcademicAffairs. The academic standing of such students will be considered on an individual basis. Normally, however, astudent earning less than 12 hours will be placed on academic probation.Change of Course (Blair, VUSE)Blair: Course changes may be made during the Open Enrollment period or the official Change Period (Drop/Add) aspublished in the University Calendar. All changes need the adviser’s approval. A course dropped during the ChangePeriod does not show on a transcript. A course may be dropped or changed from P/F to graded status prior to the deadline for withdrawal published in theUniversity Calendar. The approval of the adviser and associate dean is required (see Grading System regardingwithdrawal grades). Regularly enrolled students must maintain a minimum course load of 12 hours. Engineering: During the change period of registration as defined in the Academic Calendar, students may add ordrop courses without academic penalty. No record of courses dropped during the change period appears on theacademic record. After the change period, new courses may not be added, except under very unusualcircumstances and with the approval of the adviser, the course instructor, and the senior associate dean.Pass/Fail (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: Students may elect to take a limited number of courses on a Pass/Fail (P/F) basis. To enroll for acourse on a Pass/Fail basis, students must have achieved at least sophomore standing, and must not be onacademic probation. A minimum 12 graded credit hours is required. A graduating senior who has permission to take fewer than 12 credit hours on a graded basis may take one courseon a P/F basis in addition to the courses required for graduation. If the student does not graduate at the end of thatsemester, the P grade is automatically converted to the grade actually earned. Page 60 of 1019 
No more than 18 credit hours graded P may be counted toward the degree, and no more than one course per termmay be taken P/F. The P/F option does not apply to courses in the following categories:1. Courses counted toward AXLE requirements;2. Courses in the major field(s), other courses that may be counted toward the major(s), or courses required forthe major(s);3. For students with a defined interdisciplinary major, courses that are required for the major or that are eligibleto count toward the major;4. For students with an individually designed interdisciplinary major, courses listed in the student’s plan ofstudy;5. For students planning an optional minor, courses in the minor field or those eligible to count toward aninterdisciplinary minor;6. Courses eligible to count toward the major or minor, regardless of whether the student has already satisfiedmajor or minor requirements;7. Courses that have been specifically excluded from the P/F option;8. Courses taken previously.Students may elect grading on a Pass/Fail basis or change from Pass/Fail to graded status until the deadline date forwithdrawing from a course that is published in the Academic Calendar. Pass/Fail rules, requirements, and deadlinesare not petitionable. Those electing the Pass/Fail option must meet all course requirements (e.g. reports, papers, examinations,attendance, etc.) and are graded in the normal way. Instructors are not informed of the names of students enrolledon a Pass/Fail basis. At the end of the semester, a regular grade is submitted for the student enrolled under the P/Foption. Any grade of D– or above is converted in the Student Records System to a P, while an F will be recorded if astudent enrolled under this option fails the course. The P grade is not counted in the grade point average nor usedin the determination of honors. The grade of F earned under the Pass/Fail option is included in the calculation of thegrade point average. The grade for a class will be converted from P to the recorded letter grade if a student later declares a major orminor toward which that class counts. The recorded letter grade will be included in both the overall and the major orminor grade point average. Blair: Students may elect to take a limited number of courses on a Pass/Fail (P/F) basis. To enroll for a course on aPass/Fail basis, students must have completed at least two semesters at Vanderbilt, must have achieved at leastsophomore standing, and must not be on academic probation. The Blair Office of Academic Services can assist withP/F registration. For B.Mus. and B.Mus.Arts students, the Pass/Fail option is limited to courses taken as free electives. Course work inthe area of a minor or second major is governed by the school in which the department or program is housed. Nomore than one course may be elected on a Pass/Fail basis in any one semester. Only a total of 18 hours towards the126-hour degree total may be taken on a Pass/Fail basis. Students electing course work on a Pass/Fail basis must beenrolled for 12 graded hours. A graduating senior who has permission to take fewer than 12 hours on a graded basismay take one course on a P/F basis in addition to the courses required for graduation. If the student does notgraduate at the end of that semester, the grade P is automatically converted to the grade actually earned. Students may register for grading on a Pass/Fail basis and may change from Pass/Fail to graded status until thedeadline date for withdrawing from a course that is published in the Academic Calendar. Those electing the Pass/Fail option must meet all course requirements (e.g., reports, papers, examinations,attendance, etc.) and are graded in the normal way. Instructors are not informed of the names of students enrolledPage 61 of 1019 
on a Pass/Fail basis. At the end of the semester, a regular grade is submitted for the student enrolled under the P/Foption. Any grade of D- or above is converted in the Student Records System to a P, while an F will be recorded if astudent enrolled under this option fails the course. The P grade is not counted in the grade point average nor usedin the determination of honors. The grade of F earned under the Pass/Fail option is included in the calculation of thegrade point average. Engineering: Students may elect to take a limited number of courses on a Pass/Fail basis. To enroll for a course ona Pass/Fail basis, students must have completed at least two semesters at Vanderbilt, must have achieved at leastsophomore standing, and must not be on academic probation. In addition, the following regulations apply to students enrolled in the School of Engineering:1. No more than 9 hours graded Pass will be accepted toward the B.S. or B.E. degree, as designated by eachprogram's curriculum.2. No more than two courses may be taken on a Pass/Fail basis in any one semester.3. A minimum of 12 hours must be taken on a graded basis in any semester that a Pass/Fail course is taken. Agraduating senior who needs fewer than 12 hours to graduate may take courses on a Pass/Fail basis as longas he or she takes the number of hours needed to graduate on a graded basis.4. Students may elect grading on a Pass/Fail basis and may change from Pass/Fail to graded status until thedeadline date for withdrawing from a course that is published in the Academic Calendar.Pass/Fail Electives Options by Program Open ElectiveLiberal Arts CoreTechnical ElectiveBMEXX CEXX CHEX  CMPEX  CSXXXECEX  ESXX MEXXX (non-ME)  Those electing the Pass/Fail option must meet all course requirements (e.g., reports, papers, examinations,attendance, etc.) and are graded in the normal way. Instructors are not informed of the names of students enrolledon a Pass/Fail basis. At the end of the semester, a regular grade is submitted for the student enrolled under the P/Foption. Any grade of D- or above is converted in the Student Records System to a P, while an F will be recorded if astudent enrolled under this option fails the course. The P grade is not counted in the grade point average or used inthe determination of honors. The grade of F earned under the Pass/Fail option is included in the calculation of thegrade point average. Peabody: Students may elect to take some courses in which they can receive the grade P (Pass). This grade isentered for the student enrolled under the P/F option who is awarded a grade of D- or higher. The grade P is neithercounted in the grade point average nor used in the determination of honors. A failing grade will appear on thestudent record as F and will be counted in the student’s grade point average. To be eligible for the P/F option, the student must have completed two regular semesters at Vanderbilt and must notbe on academic probation. No more than one course per semester may be taken on a P/F basis and no more thanthree total during the undergraduate career. No more than one course from any Liberal Education Core area (e.g.,communications, humanities) may be taken under this option. Page 62 of 1019 