semesters. A student whose academic record warrants a third semester of probation normally will be dropped fromthe university. Students will be placed on academic probation if any of the following conditions apply: Freshmen1. The student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 1.800. Probation is removed (assuming there is noother reason for the probation) when the student’s grade point average is raised to 1.800 or above.2. The student fails to earn at least 12 hours in a regular semester as a freshman. Probation is removed whenthe student earns at least 12 hours in a subsequent semester and/or is judged to be making satisfactoryacademic progress.3. The student fails to achieve sophomore standing in the required two semesters. Probation is removed whenthe student achieves sophomore standing.4. Freshmen who pass fewer than two regular courses in their first regular semester or who earn a grade pointaverage lower than 1.000 have so seriously compromised their academic standing that they may be requiredto take an academic probationary leave of absence during the spring semester.Sophomores 1. The student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 1.800. Probation is removed (assuming there is noother reason for the probation) when the student’s grade point average is raised to 1.800 or above, exceptthat at the end of the second regular semester the student must qualify for junior standing. 2. The student fails to earn at least 12 hours in a regular semester as a sophomore. Probation is removed whenthe student earns at least 12 hours in a subsequent semester and/or is judged to be making satisfactoryacademic progress.3. The student is placed on probation by the Undergraduate Administrative Committee for failure to makesatisfactory progress toward the degree. Probation is removed when the specified conditions are met.4. The student fails to achieve junior standing in the required two semesters after achieving sophomorestanding. Probation is removed when junior standing is achieved.Juniors 1. The student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 1.900. Probation is removed (assuming there is noother reason for the probation) when the grade point average is raised to 900 or above, except that at theend of the second regular semester the student must qualify for senior standing.2. The student fails to earn at least 12 hours in a regular semester as a junior. Probation is removed when thestudent earns at least 12 hours in a subsequent semester and/or is judged to be making satisfactoryacademic progress.3. The student is placed on probation by the Undergraduate Administrative Committee for failure to makesatisfactory progress toward the degree. Probation is removed when the specified conditions are met.4. The student fails to achieve senior standing in the required two semesters after achieving junior standing.Probation is removed when senior standing is achieved.Seniors1. The student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 2.000. Probation is removed when the grade pointaverage is raised to 2.000 or above. 2. The student fails to earn at least 12 hours in a regular semester as a senior, unless the semester is one inwhich the student needs fewer than 12 hours in order to complete the requirements for graduation (seesection on Course Load, above). Probation is removed when the student earns at least 12 hours in asubsequent semester and/or is judged to be making satisfactory academic progress and/or completes therequirements for graduation.Petitions and Appeals (A&S, PBDY)Arts & Science: The Administrative Committee of the College of Arts and Science entertains petitions fromcurrently enrolled students for exceptions to academic regulations. Any student subject to action by theAdministrative Committee may appeal that action to the committee in writing. Further appeals from decisions of thecommittee follow standard university policies as described in the Student Handbook. Peabody: The procedures of the appeal process pertaining to academic matters within Peabody College are listedbelow. Please see the chapter “Student Accountability” in the Vanderbilt University Student Handbook for adescription of the appeal process for non-academic matters.Page 90 of 1019 