 Further information on the College Scholars program and honors in the College of Arts and Science may be obtainedfrom Associate Dean Dan Morgan. Departmental HonorsTo encourage individual development and independent study within their field, many departments andinterdisciplinary programs of the College of Arts and Science offer honors programs for selected, superiorcandidates. Students often begin departmental honors work in the junior year, but some projects start in the senioryear. To qualify for consideration, students must have (a) attained a minimum grade point average of 3.300 in allwork previously taken for credit and in the major, and (b) exhibited to the department(s) and/or interdisciplinaryprogram(s) other evidence of the student’s capacity for independent study. Some departments and interdisciplinaryprograms require higher grade point averages in all work previously taken for credit and/or in the major. Formaladmission is by the director of honors study in the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education after nomination bythe department(s) and/or interdisciplinary program(s) concerned. Requirements to complete departmental honors vary from department to department (see descriptions in theappropriate department sections of this catalog). Candidates are required to demonstrate some degree of originalityand maturity in the methods of independent investigation, analysis, and criticism, and skill in the writtenpresentation of independent work. This standard usually requires a senior thesis but may be satisfied, indepartments that have gained approval of this procedure, by a series of briefer critical papers. Departmental honors work culminates in an examination given in the second semester of the senior year. Theexamination shall be both oral and written except in departments where honors students must take all coursesrequired of standard majors in addition to those required of honors students. These departments have the option ofmaking the examination either oral or both oral and written. The examination shall be conducted by a committeewith a majority of examiners who have not participated in the candidate’s honors work. Where feasible, examinersfrom other institutions may be included. The examination shall cover the thesis and specific fields of theindependent work and may, at the discretion of the department, include all of the major work. Successful candidatesare awarded honors or highest honors in their field, and this designation appears on their diplomas. Dean’s ListThe Dean’s List recognizes outstanding academic performance in a semester. Students are named to the Dean’s Listwhen they earn a grade point average of at least 3.500 while carrying 12 or more graded credit hours, with notemporary or missing grades in any course (credit or non-credit), and no grade of F. A student must be in a degree-granting school. Phi Beta KappaThe Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in the state of Tennessee honors scholarly attainments in the liberal arts andsciences and annually elects seniors and juniors to membership during the spring semester. Seniors who have completed at least 60 credit hours in the College of Arts and Science and earned a cumulativegrade point average of 3.65 or higher are eligible for consideration, as are juniors who have completed at least 70credit hours at Vanderbilt with a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.90. Juniors must have completed mostAXLE requirements by the end of their junior year. For calculating credit hours and judging residence requirements,the chapter treats foreign study programs in the same manner as does the College of Arts and Science. Attainment of the minimum required grade point average does not guarantee election. Membership in Phi BetaKappa is based on a demonstration of scholarly achievements, broad cultural interests, and high moral character.Page 121 of 1019 