COURSES OFFERED: PHIL The Department of Philosophy at Vanderbilt offers a wide range of courses relating philosophy to various dimensionsof human concern. The department emphasizes three broad areas of scholarly and teaching excellence: ethics, social and politicalphilosophy, and the history of philosophy.Program of Concentration in PhilosophyThe program of concentration should be tailored to the needs and interests of the student. The following distributionof courses is required as part of the major. Logic: 1003 or 3003 (at least 3 credit hours); Ethics: 1005, 3605, 3606, or3606W (at least 3 credit hours); History of Philosophy: 2100, 2101, 2102, 2103, or 2104 (at least 6 credit hours). Anyalterations must be approved by the director of undergraduate studies. We encourage all majors to work closelywith their advisers to select courses that form a coherent whole. The student must take at least 30 credit hours inthe major field of which at least 21 credit hours must be in courses beyond the 1000 level. Honors ProgramThe Honors Program offers opportunities for advanced study in philosophy, including independent research projectsand/or enrollment in certain graduate seminars (with permission of the instructor). To be admitted to the program,the student must: (a) be a major in philosophy; (b) have a grade point average of 3.3 in all courses; (c) have a 3.5grade point average in philosophy courses; and (d) develop a written proposal for advanced study in consultationwith a philosophy faculty sponsor. Students who satisfy these requirements should meet with the director ofundergraduate studies to review their programs, whereupon the director may nominate the students for honorswork. Honors work typically begins in the junior year or in the first semester of the senior year; students in theprogram must complete at least 3 credit hours of Philosophy 3999. Students who successfully complete the programwhile maintaining the grade point averages of 3.3 generally, and 3.5 in the major, will receive honors in philosophy;students who do especially distinguished work will receive highest honors. Minor in PhilosophyThe minor in philosophy consists of 18 credit hours, including at least 12 credit hours in courses beyond the 1000level. The minor program will be constructed so as to provide a broad grounding in philosophy and to complementthe student’s other studies. Each program must be approved by the director of undergraduate studies. Note: 1002 or 1002W or 1005 or 1111 are ordinarily taken prior to all other philosophy courses, except 1003 and3003 (logic courses), 3616 (philosophy of science), and 3013 (aesthetics).Physics and AstronomyProgram of Concentration in PhysicsLicensure for TeachingHonors ProgramDepartmental MinorsMinor in PhysicsMinor in AstronomyIntroductory Courses - PhysicsIntermediate Courses - PhysicsAdvanced Courses - PhysicsPage 440 of 1019 
Medical and Health Physics CoursesPhysics Education CoursesIntroductory Courses - AstronomyIntermediate Courses - Astronomy Advanced Courses - Astronomy  CHAIR Julia VelkovskaVICE CHAIR Kalman VargaDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Robert ScherrerDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES (Physics) Alfredo GurrolaDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES (Astrophysics) Jonathan BirdProfessors, Emeriti: John Barach, Charles Brau, David Ernst, Leonard Feldman, Joseph Hamilton, Arnold Heiser,Charles Maguire, Volker Oberacker, Akunuri Ramayya, Paul Sheldon, Norman Tolk, David Weintraub, Robert A.WellerProfessors: David Cliffel, John Gore, Senta Greene, Richard Haglund, J. Holley-Bockelmann, M. Hutson, Will Johns,Thomas Kephart, Sokrates Pantelides, Todd Peterson, Robert Scherrer, Keivan Stassun, Sait Umar, Kalman Varga,Julia Velkovska, Sharon Weiss, John WikswoAssociate Professors:  Steven Csorna, Alfredo Gurrola, Jason Valentine, Junzhong XuAssistant Professors: Yi Chen, John Eley, Karan Jani, Raghav Kunnawalkam Elayavalli, Alexandru Lupsasca,Mallory Molina, Jean-Francois Paquet, Jessie Runnoe, Stephen Taylor, Adam YockPrincipal Senior Lecturers: Sourish Dutta, Erika Grundstrom, Momchil VelkovskySenior Lecturers: Amal al-Wahish, Dusan Danilovic, Brenda Fabela Enriquez, Katherine ShepardAdjoint Professors: Sakir Ayik, Arnold Burger, William HofmeisterAdjoint Assistant Professors: Emmanuel Rowe, Susan Stewart COURSES OFFERED: ASTR, PHYS As fundamental sciences, physics and astronomy continue to be driving intellectual forces in expanding ourunderstanding of the universe, in discovering the scientific basis for new technologies, and in applying thesetechnologies to research. In keeping with this crucial role, the Department of Physics and Astronomy offers coursesdealing with both the cultural and intellectual aspects of the disciplines, a broadly based major program flexibleenough to serve as preparation for graduate study in physics, applied physics, medical physics, astronomy orastrophysics, professional study in another area, or technical employment, and minor programs for studentsdesiring to combine physics or astronomy with other majors. An honors program is available for qualifieddepartmental majors. A distinguishing feature of the Vanderbilt undergraduate curriculum is the close coupling between teaching andresearch. At Vanderbilt, active research groups are studying the physics of elementary particles; nuclear structureand heavy-ion reactions; nonlinear interactions of lasers with materials at ultrafast time scales; the behavior ofelectrons, atoms, molecules, and photons near surfaces; the electric and magnetic properties of living systems; thestructure and dynamics of biopolymers; young stars; and cosmology. All professors are engaged in research, andundergraduate students can participate in this research informally or through independent study or summer work.Page 441 of 1019 