Performance Instruction: B. Mus. and B. Mus. Arts Degrees (Blair)Blair: Fees. Performance instruction fees are waived for B.Mus. and B.Mus.Arts students. A one-time musictechnology fee is charged to each first-year student. Elective credit. B.Mus. and B.Mus.Arts students taking a second instrument normally enroll in 1100-levelperformance instruction for 1 or 2 hours elective credit. Consent of the instructor is required. B.Mus. and B.Mus.Artsstudents who have declared a minor instrument also register for performance instruction at the 1100 level; consentof the instructor and notification of the Blair Office of Academic Services are required. Composition Majors. Students register for performance instruction at the 1100 level. A minimum of 6 semesters ofstudy totaling 6 credit hours is required. Integrated Studies Majors, Integrated Studies/Teacher Education Majors, Jazz Studies Majors, and B.Mus.Artsstudents. First-year students and sophomores register for 2100-level performance instruction in their primary area.Juniors and seniors register for 4100-level performance instruction in their primary area. A minimum of 8 semesterstotaling 16 credit hours required; performance instruction required every semester in residence. Performance Majors. First-year students and sophomores register for 2200-level performance instruction in theirprimary area. Juniors and seniors register for 4200-level instruction in their primary area. A minimum of 8 semesterstotaling 32 hours (instrumental performance majors) or 28 hours (vocal performance majors) required; performanceinstruction required every semester in residence.Upper Divisional Hearing (Blair)Blair: Requirements for performance majors include an upper divisional hearing in the sophomore year todetermine continuance in the performance degree program and permit subsequent enrollment in upper divisionstudy at the 4200 level. Students are required to perform a program of twenty to thirty minutes for a facultycommittee convened by the studio instructor or by the department chair. The committee will normally consist of thestudent’s studio teacher and at least two additional members of the department. Memorization is required asappropriate, and where called for, collaboration with piano is expected. The student must consult with the studio instructor regarding appropriate repertoire. Instrumental selections mustbe chosen from the solo repertoire and should represent diverse historical periods. Percussionists must perform onkeyboard percussion, timpani, and snare drum and/or multiple percussion. String repertoire must include solo Bach.Pianists must perform a 30-minute memorized program of solo piano literature representing at least three styleperiods. Vocal repertoire must include a minimum of five songs of contrasting periods and styles, using threelanguages (Italian, English, and either French or German). Failure to pass this hearing demonstrates a lack of the requisite skills to graduate in performance at the Blair School,necessitating transfer to another degree program. A student may petition the faculty once for a second hearing,with entirely different repertoire, to take place before the end of the first semester of the junior yearPre-Recital Hearing (Blair)Blair: All students (excepting composition) giving required recitals and any student who wishes to give a recital inthe Blair building must pass a hearing, held at least three weeks before the recital. After establishing a recital date,the student, with guidance from the studio instructor, will assemble a recital hearing committee, consisting of twoadditional faculty members, one of whom must be from outside the student’s performing area. For integratedstudies/teacher education students, the committee will normally consist of the studio instructor, a teacher educationfaculty member, and at least one additional faculty member. For non-required, non-credit recitals, the hearingcommittee may be from within the department. For any recital involving a student’s second performing medium, thestudent must seek approval from the studio instructor and area coordinator of the secondary and primaryperforming areas; in addition, a full-time faculty member from the secondary performing area must be part of thePage 96 of 1019 