Transfer CreditWork presented for transfer must be from an accredited college and is subject to evaluation in light of the degreerequirements of this university. For domestic schools, the school must be regionally accredited; for internationalschools, the school must have country-specific accreditation.  Work transferred to Vanderbilt from another institution will not carry with it a grade point average. No course inwhich a grade below C– was received will be credited toward a degree offered by the university.  College of Arts and Science. Transfer students must complete at least 60 hours of work in the College of Arts andScience. Credit earned as a degree-seeking student at another university may be used to fulfill AXLE requirements.  Blair School of Music. In addition to an application for admission, transfer students applying to Blair must alsosubmit a Blair School of Music Application, which includes a required prescreening video, by the March 15 deadline.Selected applicants will be invited to audition in person. See the Blair website for information and instructions aboutthe Blair admissions process. Transfer students will be assigned a level of program study based on the entranceaudition. Credit for music courses may be granted following an examination at Blair. Credit for non- music courses issubject to evaluation by the university. Transfer students must complete at least 63 hours at Blair.  School of Engineering. Transfer students must complete at least 60 hours of work at Vanderbilt. Peabody College. Transfer students must complete at least 60 hours of work at Peabody. Two of the four semestersin residence must be the last two semesters of the student’s degree program. Prior DegreesIt is the policy of Vanderbilt University to verify prior educational credentials for all admitted students who intend tomatriculate. All matriculated students must provide official copies of transcripts and any other required supportingdocumentation to Vanderbilt University as part of the prior degree verification process. The Office of the UniversityRegistrar will review transcripts and other supporting documentation for authenticity and to confirm degrees earnedprior to matriculation at Vanderbilt. Offers of admission are contingent on a student’s providing the requireddocumentation. Undergraduate students who are not able to provide evidence of prior degrees will not be permittedto register for subsequent terms and may be subject to dismissal from the university.
Page 43 of 1019 