 Well-equipped undergraduate laboratories are maintained by the Chemistry and Physics & Astronomy departmentsin the College of Arts and Science, which offers mathematics and basic science courses required of all engineeringstudents. Graduate and undergraduate divisions of these departments maintain teaching and research facilities inthe Stevenson Center for the Natural Sciences. Another supporting department, Biological Sciences, is housed inMedical Research Building III. Most classes in humanities and the social sciences are conducted in Buttrick, Calhoun,Furman, Garland, and Wilson halls. Professional Registration and AccreditationLegislation exists in the various states requiring registration of all engineers who contract with the public to performprofessional work. Although many engineering positions do not require professional certification, Vanderbiltsupports registration and encourages its graduates to take the Fundamentals of Engineering examination as soon asthey become eligible. Bachelor of engineering degrees in biomedical engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, electrical andcomputer engineering, and mechanical engineering are accredited as noted below. Students in these programs maytake the Fundamentals of Engineering examination as seniors. In addition, proven professional experience is arequirement for registration. Some state boards may have additional requirements for licensure. All programs leading to the Bachelor of Engineering degree and the program leading to the Bachelor of Science incomputer science are accredited as follows: The Bachelor of Engineering degree program in biomedical engineering is accredited by the EngineeringAccreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and the Program Criteria forBioengineering and Biomedical and Similarly Named Engineering Programs. The Bachelor of Engineering degree program in civil engineering is accredited by the Engineering AccreditationCommission of ABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and the Program Criteria for Civil andSimilarly Named Engineering Programs. The Bachelor of Engineering degree program in chemical engineering is accredited by the Engineering AccreditationCommission of ABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and the Program Criteria for Chemical,Biochemical, Biomolecular and Similarly Named Engineering Programs. The Bachelor of Science program in computer science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission ofABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and Program Criteria for Computer Science and SimilarlyNamed Computing Programs. The accredited program in computer science is the primary major administered by theSchool of Engineering. Computer science added as a second major by students outside the School of Engineering isnot an accredited program. The Bachelor of Engineering degree program in electrical and computer engineering is accredited by theEngineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and the ProgramCriteria for Electrical, Computer, Communications, Telecommunication(s) and Similarly Named EngineeringPrograms. The Bachelor of Engineering degree program in mechanical engineering is accredited by the the EngineeringAccreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org/, under the General Criteria and the Program Criteria forPage 172 of 1019 