language course if they previously have earned credit for a higher-level course taught in that same language.Students who have earned Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate credit in a foreign language willforfeit the test credit if they complete a lower-level course taught in that same language. The Department of Asian Studies provides students with a foundation in the languages, cultures, and societies ofAsia and the Asian diaspora necessary to pursue a career among a wide host of global companies, institutions, andagencies that do business in the United States and abroad with the many countries of Asia. Rich in diverse historiesand cultures, present-day Asia and the Asian diaspora are at the center of the global future. A degree in AsianStudies equips its students with the linguistic competence and cultural knowledge to join in that global future,whether it be as a foreign press correspondent, investment banker, video game designer, translator/interpreter,educator, diplomat, tour operator, ad firm consultant, or traditional Chinese medicine practitioner. With the study ofmodern Asian languages at its core, the program embraces a wide variety of courses in the art, culture, economics,history, film and media, politics, religion, medicine, and sociology of East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, AsianAmerica, and Asian diasporic communities throughout the world. Through their teaching and research, facultymembers promote a better understanding of multiple facets of life in Asia and the region’s past and presentrelationship with the rest of the world. Majors and minors are strongly encouraged to complete a study abroad program in Asia. Up to 6 credit hours ofAsia-related courses from Vanderbilt-approved study abroad programs may be applied toward the major or minorupon approval of the department chair or director of undergraduate studies. Additional study abroad credit hoursmay be granted on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the chair or DUS. Students should consult with the chairor DUS before applying to a study abroad program.Program of Concentration in Asian StudiesThe major in Asian studies requires a minimum of 36 credit hours of course work and is designed to ensure thatgraduates have both depth and breadth in their understanding of Asia. For the major in Asian studies, students must formally declare an area of concentration at the time the major isdeclared (China, Japan, Korea, or South Asia) and complete at least 36 credit hours from the Asian Studies CourseList (see below), according to these rules:1. At least 3 credit hours in an Asian language taught in the Department of Asian Studies at the 3301 (AdvancedI) level or above. Asian languages not offered by the Asian studies department require the approval of thedepartment chair or the director of undergraduate studies.2. At least 9 non-language credit hours of courses in area of concentration.3. At least 6 non-language credit hours of courses eligible for Asian Perspectives.4. No more than 18 credit hours of courses in any Asian language may be applied to the total 36 credit hours.Advanced Placement credits in language do not count toward credit hours required for the major or minors, but canfigure into the assessment of initial placement within a language track.Program of Concentration in Asian American and Asian Diaspora StudiesFor the major in Asian American & Asian Diaspora Studies, students must complete at least 36 credit hours from theAsian Studies Course List (see below), according to these rules: 1. At least 3 credit hours in an Asian language taught in the Department of Asian Studies at the 2202(Intermediate II) level or above. Asian languages not offered by the Asian studies department require theapproval of the department chair or the director of undergraduate studies.2. At least 12 credit hours of Asian American & Asian Diaspora-eligible courses (code "AA" on Asian Studiescourse list, including ASAM 2101 or ASAM 2102.3. At least 6 credit hours of courses eligible for Asian Perspectives at the 3000-level or higher.4. No more than 18 credit hours of courses in any Asian language may be applied to the total 36 credit hours.Advanced Placement credits in language do not count toward credit hours required for the majors or minors, butcan figure into the assessment of initial placement within a language track.Page 299 of 1019 