DIRECTOR Jonathan M. MetzlASSISTANT DIRECTOR JuLeigh PettyDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Dominique BehagueDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES JuLeigh PettyDIRECTOR OF ADVISING Courtney S. PetersonProfessor, Emeriti: Hector MyersProfessor: Jonathan MetzlAssociate Professors: Dominique Behague, Jennifer Gaddy, Gilbert Gonzales, Mozhdeh Hamraie, Martha Jones,Kenneth MacLeish, Tara McKay, Laura StarkAssistant Professors: Panka Bencsik, Kirsty Clark, Marcus Dillender, Lucie Kalousova, Julie Ward, Katherine WenPrincipal Senior Lecturers: Courtney Peterson, JuLeigh PettySenior Lecturers: Heidi Bludau, Jaime Bruce, Celina Callahan-Kapoor, Lauren MitchellWriters in Residence: Fatima Kola, Odie Lindsey, Samuel Quinones, Caroline Williams COURSES OFFERED: MHS The Program in Medicine, Health, and Society offers an interdisciplinary major (36 credit hours) and minor (18 credithours) for students interested in studying health-related beliefs and practices in their social and cultural contexts. Aspart of the requirements of the major, students must declare and complete 12 credit hours in one of the sixconcentrations in Medicine, Health, and Society: global health; health behaviors and health sciences; healtheconomics and policy; inequality, intersectionality, and health justice; medicine, humanities, and arts; or criticalhealth studies. An honors program is available. MHS draws on a variety of fields in the social sciences andhumanities—anthropology, economics, history, literature, philosophy/ethics, psychology, sociology, and religiousstudies. The major will be of particular interest to students preparing for careers in health-related professions aswell as to students interested in examining an important part of human experience from multiple perspectives anddeveloping a critical understanding of contemporary society. Students are encouraged to take advantage of theopportunities offered by the Center for Medicine, Health, and Society. Visit vanderbilt.edu/mhs for more details. The program is directed by Jonathan M. Metzl, Frederick B. Rentschler II Professor of Sociology and Medicine, Health,and Society.Program of Concentration in Medicine, Health, and SocietyThe major requires a minimum of 36 credit hours of course work, distributed as follows:Note: No more than 21 credit hours may be in courses designated MHS. Other than MHS, no more than 12 credithours may be in the same subject area; A&S Psychology and Peabody Psychology are considered the same subjectarea for purposes of the major/minor. 1. Core Courses — Students must complete one of the following (3 credit hours):MHS 1920, Politics of HealthMHS 1930, Social Dimensions of Health and IllnessMHS 1940, Racial and Ethnic Health DisparitiesMHS 1950, Theories of the BodyMHS 1960, Health HumanitiesPage 426 of 1019 
MHS 2110, American Medicine in the WorldMHS 2800, Foundations of Population Health Theory and Practice 2. Concentration — Students must complete four courses not used to satisfy the core course requirement or theelective requirements in one of the following six concentrations (12 credit hours). Students must declare one of thefollowing concentrations when they declare the major.Note: Courses must be from at least two subject areas.A. Global healthB. Health policies and economiesC. Health behaviors and health sciencesD. Inequality, intersectionality, and health justiceE. Medicine, humanities, and artsF. Critical health studiesSee below for a list of courses that count for Concentrations A, B, C, D, and E. Students choosing concentration Fmust propose a set of four courses (12 credit hours) that form a coherent program of study related to critical healthstudies and receive approval from the director of undergraduate studies. 3. Electives — Seven courses not used to satisfy the core course or concentration requirements chosen from the listof approved courses (21 credit hours). 4. Disciplinary Requirement — At least 3 credit hours from the following courses must be used to satisfy theconcentration requirement or electives requirement.ANTH 2213W, Food, Identity, and CultureANTH 3143, Medical AnthropologyANTH 3141, Anthropology of HealingANTH 3345, Genetics in SocietyCSET 2500, Science for EveryoneCSET 2550, Genetic Breakthroughs: The PromiseECON 2350, Health Care PolicyECON 3350, Economics of HealthGSS 3305, Gender and Sexuality in Times of PandemicHIST 2780, Superhuman CivilizationHIST 2800, Modern MedicineMHS 2140, Health Care in the United States: Policy and PoliticsMHS 3050W, Medicine and LiteratureMHS 3120, Medicine, Science, and TechnologyMUSL 3235, Music, Pandemics, and HistoryPHIL 1008, 1008W, Introduction to Medical EthicsPHIL 3608, Ethics and MedicinePSY 3635, Health PsychologyPage 427 of 1019 