 CHAIR Steven A. WernkeDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Jacob J. SauerDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES Jada Benn-TorresProfessors, Emeriti: Tom Dillehay, Lesley Gill, William Fowler, Thomas Gregor, Ronald SporesProfessors: Arthur Demarest, Edward Fischer, Tiffiny Tung, Steven WernkeAssociate Professors: Jada Benn Torres, Carwil Bjork-James, Beth Conklin, Markus Eberl, T. S. Harvey, NorbertRossAssistant Professors: Sophie Bjork James, Ari Caramanica, Rebeca Gamez-Djovic, Monica Keith, KimberlyMcKinson, Gabriel Torres Colon, Michelle YoungAssociate Professor of the Practice: Tiffany SaulPrincipal Senior Lecturers: Mareike Sattler, Jacob J. Sauer COURSES OFFERED: ANTH, KICH Anthropology is the study of human diversity in all times and places. It brings together perspectives from thesciences and humanities to illuminate different aspects of the human past, the human body, and contemporarysocial life. Global perspectives, fieldwork and experiential learning, and concerns with ethics, justice, and social well-being are hallmarks of anthropology. Vanderbilt’s program has a strong research focus on Latin America and historically marginalized groups, especiallyindigenous people and descendants of the African diaspora. Students majoring in anthropology take courses in several subfields, each of which looks at humanity from adifferent perspective. Cultural anthropology examines the relationships, beliefs, values, and political-economicpractices that shape individual behavior, community life, and power in modern societies. Archaeology studiessocieties through their material remains, enabling long-term perspectives on the human past as well as connectionsto present-day descendant communities. Linguistics explores relations between language and culture. Biologicalanthropology examines topics such as community health in the past and present, forensic science, genetics,evolution, human biology, and bioethics. Courses cluster around themes of cross-cultural health, biology, food, andmedical systems; inequality, power, and social-political relations; material culture, human-environment relations,and spatial analysis; religion and politics; and worldviews, language, and cognition. Many courses areinterdisciplinary in nature, with connections to programs such as Biology; Earth and Environmental Science;Medicine, Health, and Society; Human and Organizational Development; History; Classics and MediterraneanStudies; Sociology; Jewish Studies; African American and Diaspora Studies; Latin American Studies; Asian Studies,and others, and attracts students from all four Undergraduate colleges. Unless indicated otherwise in the coursedescription, anthropology courses have no prerequisites and are open to all majors and non-majors. Knowledge of the diversity of human histories and lifeways is vital to imagining alternative paths to a better society.Anthropology develops this knowledge through experiential learning that challenges students to go beyond thefamiliar, to see, understand, create, and interact in new ways. This preparation is useful in all professional careersthat involve understanding human behavior, working with people from different backgrounds, analyzing complexinformation, and thinking holistically about the conditions that shape people’s lives.Program of Concentration in AnthropologyThe major in anthropology requires completion of at least 30 credit hours of course work, as follows:1. 6 credit hours. Two 1000-level surveys selected from the subfields of anthropology: 1101 (CulturalPage 293 of 1019 