Interdisciplinary StudiesAny student who is at least a sophomore and in good academic standing may earn one credit hour per semester orsummer for an internship completed under the designation INDS 3880/3884 (summer) exclusively on a Pass/Failbasis. This course may be repeated twice for a maximum of three credit hours. Students are responsible forobtaining their own internship and faculty adviser. The student and faculty adviser work together to plan theacademic project associated with the internship. Their agreement must be approved by Associate Dean DanielMorgan. COURSES OFFERED: INDSJewish StudiesProgram of Concentration in Jewish StudiesHonors ProgramMinor in Jewish Studies  CHAIR Ari JoskowiczDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES: Adam MeyerProfesors, Emeriti: Amy-Jill Levine, David WassersteinProfessors: Phillip Ackerman-Lieberman, Robert Barsky, Emily Greble, Ari Joskowicz, David Price, Allison SchachterAssociate Professors: Julia Cohen, Nathalie Debrauwere Miller, Shaul Kelner, Adam Meyer, Paul MillerAssistant Professors: Emanuele Costa, Rebecca J. Epstein-Levi, Samuel Finkelstein, Simone StirnerSenior Lecturer: Judith Klass COURSES OFFERED: HEBR, JS Jewish Studies at Vanderbilt offers an interdisciplinary academic program that facilitates the critical study of Jewishhistory, religion, language, philosophy, politics, culture, society, music, art, and literature across continents and overthree millennia. Integral to understanding crucial moments in the formation of Christianity and Islam as well asdistinct episodes in the cultures of the modern Middle East, Europe, and America, the program accesses theresources of the entire university to explore Judaism, its evolution and expression from biblical times to the present.This interdisciplinary program reflects Vanderbilt’s commitment to advancing the understanding of diverse culturesand traditions. Students of all backgrounds will find in Jewish Studies at Vanderbilt a wide array of material andmethodologies, presented by scholars from history, anthropology, sociology, religious studies, philosophy, literature,and history of art. Students may focus on several areas of concentration and tailor the major to their academic andcareer interests. They also have access to courses offered by the schools of divinity, education, and music; theyhave access to the Zimmerman Judaica collection as well as the opportunity to study abroad, pursue internshipslocally or nationally, and do research in archives overseas. The interdisciplinary nature of Jewish Studies offersexcellent preparation for graduate studies and provides an outstanding academic foundation for a variety ofrewarding career paths. Visit as.vanderbilt.edu/jewishstudies for more details. Program of Concentration in Jewish StudiesThe major in Jewish studies requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. 1. Introductory course, 3 credit hours. JS 1002 or 1002W, Introduction to Jewish Studies, JS 1010: Introduction toPage 408 of 1019 