Honors ProgramThe Minor in European StudiesJoint Major Option  DIRECTOR Christoph Zeller and Meike G. WernerPROFESSORS Robert Barsky, Michael Bess, Emily Greble, Christoph ZellerASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Ari Joskowicz, Letizia Modena, Michelle Murray, Meike WernerVISITING ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR Alexander Schmidt COURSES OFFERED: EUS Designed for students with an interest in European culture, politics, and society, the Program in European Studies(EUS) offers a range of survey and in-depth courses that shed a light on the European project, its global impact, andits challenges. A combination of core courses enables students to analyze Europe’s past as well as its manycontemporary facets. EUS elective courses broaden the understanding of Europe’s diverse cultural tradition andpolitical developments and lay the foundation for careers in international law, geo-politics, cultural administration,and other professions that deal with international affairs. The Program in European Studies sponsors events and workshops, including a visiting lecture series, internationalsymposia, and informal faculty-student luncheon seminars, in conjunction with the Max Kade Center for Europeanand German Studies. EUS offers an immersive encounter with different cultures. Students majoring in EUS fulfill specific languagerequirements and many choose to study one or two semesters in a European country at pre-approved programs.Program of Concentration in European Studies (27-30 credit hours)Students with an interest in European culture, politics, and societies choose from a set of overview courses todeepen their understanding of historical and contemporary European topics, select up to five additional electives inEUS, and fulfill language requirements to ascertain their training in intercultural literacy. The major prepares forcareers in international law, politics, and diplomacy as well as in cultural administration with the visit of advancedstudies or Ph.D. programs. Most EUS majors participate in approved study abroad programs in Europe. Activeparticipation is expected in events and activities, such as guest lectures, symposia, and luncheons, organized byEUS in conjunction with the Max Kade Center for European and German Studies. Required Core Courses (9 credit hours)EUS 2201, European Society and Culture or EUS 2203, The Idea of Europe (3 credit hours)EUS 2202, European PoliticsEUS 2204, European Cultural HistoryForeign Language Requirement (6 credit hours) The foreign language requirement is to be satisfied in one of the following ways:6 credit hours of course work at the intermediate level in one European language;course work through the beginner level in two European languages;Page 381 of 1019 