 Program of Concentration in English and American LiteratureProgram I: Literary Studies (30 credit hours)Students pursue a broad range of interests through a flexible approach to the study of literature. 30 total credithours including:1. 6 credit hours in History (literature before 1800)2. 6 credit hours of Diverse Perspectives (ethnic American or Anglophone literature)3. 18 additional credit hours of electives in English, chosen from the courses that count toward the majorA course cannot be used to satisfy more than one requirement in the major. Courses that fulfill the requirement in numbers 1, 2, and 3 above are described below under General Requirementsand Advice for Majors and Minors in All Programs. Program II: Creative Writing (30 credit hours)Students develop their creative writing while acquiring an overview of English literature. 30 total credit hoursincluding:1. 12 credit hours of 3000-level creative writing workshops in at least two different genres (from among:Nonfiction 3210, 3220; Fiction 3230, 3240; Poetry 3250, 3260). Admission to these courses is by consent ofinstructor.2. 3 credit hours in History (literature before 1800)3. 3 credit hours in Diverse Perspectives (ethnic American or Anglophone literature)4. 12 credit hours from courses that count toward the English major (see below), which may include oneadditional creative writing workshop (beyond the four required in number 1, above) or one course in anotherdiscipline (with approval of the director of undergraduate studies)A course cannot be used to satisfy more than one requirement in the major. Courses that fulfill the requirement in numbers 2, 3, and 4 above are described below under General Requirementsand Advice for Majors and Minors in All Programs. Program III: Specialized Critical Studies (30 credit hours)Students design their own specialized course of study with a descriptive name and develop a contract of courses forit. 30 total credit hours including:1. 12 credit hours of course work concentrated in a particular period (e.g., nineteenth-century American), genre,or movement (e.g., the novel), an aspect of intellectual history (e.g., law and literature, literary theory), orother area of special interest. Up to 9 credit hours may be taken in courses from other departments relevantto the concentration. In consultation with a major adviser, each student selects specific courses, which arelisted in a contract that is filed after the student has formally declared the major.2. 6 credit hours in History (literature before 1800)3. 6 credit hours in Diverse Perspectives (ethnic American or Anglophone literature)4. 6 credit hours from any of the courses that count toward the English major.A course cannot be used to satisfy more than one requirement in the major. Page 375 of 1019 