Italian 1101. Note: Students may not earn credit for an introductory language course if they previously have earned credit for ahigher-level course taught in that same language. In addition, students may not earn credit for an intermediate-levellanguage course if they previously have earned credit for a higher-level course taught in that same language. Students who have earned Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate credit in a foreign language willforfeit the test credit if they complete a lower-level course taught in that same language.Gender and Sexuality StudiesProgram of Concentration in Gender and Sexuality StudiesHonors ProgramMinor in Gender and Sexuality Studies  CHAIR, ACTING Christin Essin DIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Elizabeth R. CovingtonDIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES Katherine CrawfordProfessors: Brooke Ackerly, Ellen Armour, Katherine Crawford, Dana Nelson, Kathryn SchwarzAssociate Professors: Laura Carpenter, Shatema ThreadcraftAssistant Professors: Rebecca J. Epstein-Levi, Julie GamblePrincipal Senior Lecturer: Stacy SimplicanSenior Lecturers: Kristen Navarro, Kristin Rose, Danyelle Valentine COURSES OFFERED: GSS The Department of Gender and Sexuality Studies offers an interdisciplinary curriculum that examines the formationof gender and its intersections with other relations of power, such as sexuality, race, ability, class, nationality,religion, locality and age. The department encourages students to develop new theoretical approaches and totransform the analytical tools of many fields of study. Our courses and instructors pay particular attention to howlives are impacted by systemic inequalities. The goal of our scholarship, teaching, and activism is to make genderand sexuality central rather than peripheral terms of analysis. Our curriculum compels us to recognize the problemsand possibilities of our current world and also empowers us to affect change. The Department of Gender andSexuality Studies offers a major and a minor, and a graduate certificate, which provide a foundation for students whoplan to enter professional schools in law, medicine, business, the humanities, and the social sciences. Program of Concentration in Gender and Sexuality StudiesThe interdisciplinary major in gender and sexuality studies consists of 30–36 credit hours of course work, distributedat the Introductory, Intermediate, and Advanced levels, as follows: Introductory-Level Courses (3 credit hours)Page 387 of 1019 