Principal Senior Lecturer, Retired: Susan DeMaySenior Lecturer, Retired: Farrar Hood Cusomato Affiliated FacultyASSOCIATE PROFESSOR Jonathan Rattner COURSES OFFERED: ARTS Courses in art are offered in a variety of media, which provide wide-ranging methods and perspectives. Our coursesemphasize creative and critical approaches to learning. The department of art offers a rigorous, socially minded,and research-driven curriculum. Students engage in an immersive laboratory of fearless experimentation andchallenge the rapidly expanding role of art in our society. Through trans-disciplinary thinking and experimentalmethodologies, students utilize a range of artistic disciplines in a state-of-the-art facility. Equal emphasis is placedon both individual and collective exploration, where students are encouraged to develop relationships across theuniversity and broader communities. Many students will use the program in art as a foundation for careers in which creativity and visual studies areespecially valued, as the basis for advanced training in professional schools (such as art, architecture, museumstudies), and for employment in galleries, museums, commercial art, or design-related fields. An important goal ofthe department is to help students become readers of the rich visual environment in our culture throughout theirlives, as well as to encourage creative approaches to learning in all disciplines. The Department of Art offers several opportunities for extracurricular activities in the arts including a student-run artgallery, and Space 204 arts laboratory which hosts exhibitions and workshops throughout the year. Studio VUlecture series brings some of the most important artists working today to campus for lectures and one-on-one studiovisits with students. Since 1984 the Department of Art has supervised the Margaret Stonewall Wooldridge Hamblet Award given to aneligible senior art major. This prestigious award provides the means for travel and independent art activity for oneyear, culminating in a one-person exhibition at Vanderbilt. Our immersive program includes both junior and seniormajor trips to New York and other important art destinations. Many other prizes are awarded in our department. The Allan P. Deloach Memorial Prize in Photography wasestablished in 2000 in memory of Allan Deloach (B.A. 1963) by two of his colleagues at IBM. This cash award is opento any student who has taken a studio class in any discipline at Vanderbilt. Midsouth Ceramics awards are given tothe top three ceramic projects in the annual open house, and the Plaza Artists Materials awards are given to fourstudents each year. All competitions are judged by outside professional artists. Program of Concentration in ArtThe art major requires 30 credit hours and presents students the opportunity to explore their ideas conceptually, aswell as to learn the technical skills involved in the creation of art. The program offers a wide range of classes andmedia. Our students are offered a strong grounding in traditional processes such as drawing, painting, ceramics,and sculpture, as well as the opportunity to explore contemporary processes involving video, performance, digitalphotographic, and new media, installation, and social interactive art practice. Our diverse faculty utilizes a widerange of teaching styles and aesthetic philosophies. We consider how ideas have been developed through thecenturies as well as how specific techniques have been used to enrich the expression of an idea. In addition tomodern art history offerings, art majors are encouraged to take courses in pre-Renaissance, non-Western arthistory, philosophy of aesthetics, and film. The Contemporary Art Maymester offers an opportunity to studyPage 296 of 1019 