A total of 36 credit hours as follows: The Honors Research Track offers superior majors in sociology the opportunity to pursue intensive work through anindependent research project. Students interested in pursuing the Honors Research Track in Sociology shouldcontact the director of undergraduate studies for more information. To be considered for the Honors Research Trackin Sociology, a student must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3 and a minimum GPA of 3.3 for courses thatcount toward the sociology major. Students who are recommended for the program by the director of undergraduatestudies will typically begin the program in the first semester of their junior or senior year. The Honors Research Track in Sociology requires:Successful completion of requirements 1–4 in Program I, for a total of 18 creditSuccessful completion of the statistics requirement: SOC 2100 or its equivalent (defined in requirement 5 ofProgram I).Completion of 12 credit hours of elective courses. The statistics requirement is counted toward the Electivesmay include only one of the following 1000-level sociology courses: Sociology 1041, 1041W, or 1111. Noother 1000-level sociology course may be counted toward the electives requirement of the major except bypermission of the director of undergraduate studies. If students take more than 6 credit hours of SOC 4981,the additional credit hours (7–12) are counted toward the elective courses.Successful completion of at least two semesters of SOC 4981 (Honors Research). The first semester of 4981(Honors Research) is a 3 credit hour seminar in which students develop the literature review and researchplan for the honors thesis. In the second semester of 4981 (Honors Research), also for 3 credit hours, studentsmust complete the research and data collection, data analysis, and initial write-up of results of the thesis.Students may elect to take a third or fourth semester of 4981 during their senior year, when they may, forexample, work on revisions of the project and/or on publication. Students who begin the Honors Track in theirsenior year may also take more than 6 credit hours of 4981, up to a maximum of 12 credit hours.Successful defense of the completed thesis through an oral defense attended by the chair and reader of thethesis; this oral defense typically takes place during the second semester of the student’s senior year. Inorder to earn honors in sociology, students must successfully complete and defend an honors thesis beforegraduation.Comprehensive ExamIn order to graduate with a sociology major, students must take a comprehensive exam during their senior year. Theexam is not graded, and no grade will appear on the student’s transcript. The purpose of the exam is to test theextent to which sociology majors are retaining core aspects of the sociology curriculum. Program of Concentration in Environmental SociologyEnvironmental sociology is the study of the relationship between modern societies and the environment at a varietyof scales, from households to global relations. It includes issues such as public understanding of environmentalissues, the environment and inequality, environmental social movements and social change, and analysis ofenvironmental reform and adaptation. Environmental sociology is different from environmental science, which isbased in the natural sciences, and environmental studies, which includes courses from a wide range of disciplines,including engineering and the humanities. The department’s program in environmental sociology includes a solidintroduction to sociology and sociological methods as well as foundation requirements in environmental science.The program prepares students for careers in government, the law, management, research and teaching, and thenonprofit sector. Students majoring in environmental sociology are required to complete 33 credit hours of course work. The majorconsists of four types of courses: foundation social science courses, foundation environmental science courses,research skills, and environmental sociology courses. Program I (Standard Track)Page 466 of 1019 