At last count, more than 98 percent of Vanderbilt students own a personal computer. Since all students also have ahigh-speed network connection, it is convenient for students to have their own system (please consult the ResNetguidelines for supported systems). However, most students will find that the college computing facilities provide allof the computing resources that are needed for success at Vanderbilt. The Advising SystemEntering first-year students are assigned advisers from CASPAR (College of Arts and Science Pre-major AcademicAdvising Resources Center). These “pre-major advisers” counsel students during their first three and one-halfsemesters, or until the students choose majors, when they are assigned faculty advisers in their major departmentor program. Pre-major advisers are specially trained to help students move efficiently through the requirements ofAXLE (Achieving eXcellence in Liberal Education) and chart a course of study. During the last two years of study, when a student is acquiring depth of knowledge in a major field, studies areguided by a specialist in that field. Students are encouraged to see their faculty advisers at any time, since theadvisers are available for guidance and counseling and are faculty members with whom advisees may be studying. All students are required to see their advisers prior to registration for each semester. Advisers are generally happy to talk over any problems students may have, although their chief function is  academic counseling. In addition, several members of the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education, themselvesteaching faculty members, have as their principal duty counseling students and referring them to sources ofexpertise on non-academic problems. Public LecturesTHE BERRY LECTURES. Established in 1988 through the generosity of Kendall and Allen Berry, John and ShirleyLachs, Steve Turner, and Jim Burke. Three annual lectures—the Berry lecture, the Steve Turner lecture, and the JimBurke lecture—are given by distinguished philosophers. THE LOUIS JACOB BIRCHER LECTURE IN CHEMISTRY. Established in 1976 in recognition of Professor Bircher’s forty-one years of service to Vanderbilt beginning in 1921. He served as the sole professor of physical chemistry until1954, was chair of the Department of Chemistry from 1955 to 1961, and retired as professor emeritus in 1962.Family, colleagues, students, and friends of Professor Bircher have provided generous support for the series. Thelecture is presented by a leading physical chemist. THE BYRN HISTORY LECTURE. Established in 1986 and endowed by the late J. W. Byrn of Dickson, Tennessee, astudent and admirer of the thought of the British historian Arnold Toynbee. Annual lectures deal with his fields ofinterest: world history, philosophy of history, and historiography. THE FREDERICK LEROY CONOVER MEMORIAL LECTURE. First given in 1977 in honor of Vanderbilt’s first analyticalchemist. Professor Conover came to Vanderbilt in 1923 and remained for thirty-seven years. Lectures given by adistinguished analytical chemist are supported by family, colleagues, students, and friends of Professor Conover. THE WALTER CLYDE CURRY SHAKESPEARE LECTURE. Inaugurated in 1982 and funded by one of his former students,this lectureship honors the late Walter Clyde Curry, distinguished medieval and Renaissance scholar, author ofbooks on Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Milton, and for forty years beloved professor of English at Vanderbilt. Bringingto campus in alternate years eminent Shakespearean scholars and experienced Shakespearean performers, thePage 101 of 1019 