Quantum Information Science and EngineeringDIRECTORS Kalman Varga and Daniel Fleetwood Affiliated FacultyPROFESSORS Daniel M. Fleetwood (Electrical and Computer Engineering), Richard F. Haglund, Jr. (Physics), TimothyP. Hanusa (Chemistry), Sokrates T. Pantelides (Physics), Kalman Varga (Physics), Sharon M. Weiss (Electrical andComputer Engineering), Shane Hutson (Physics), Dietmar Bisch (Mathematics), Xenofon Koutsoukos (ComputerScience), Michael Stone (Chemistry), Philippe M. Fauchet (Electrical and Computer Engineering), Deyu Li (MechanicalEngineering)ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Alfredo Gurolla (Physics) Jason G. Valentine (Mechanical Engineering), Joshua Caldwell(Mechanical Engineering)ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Raghav Kunnawalkam Elayavalli (Physics), Lauran Buchanan(Chemistry), Justus C. Ndukaife (Electrical and Computer Engineering), Piran Kidambi (Chemical and BiomolecularEngineering), David Hyde (Computer Science)Faculty in the School of Engineering and the College of Arts and Science offer an interdisciplinary minor in QuantumInformation Science and Engineering. The minor is administered by the College of Arts and Science. Quantum technology is an emerging field that has the potential to revolutionize many areas of science andtechnology, from computing to sensing to communication. Quantum mechanics has played an important role inmany areas of engineering for decades now, fueling an increasing number of fundamental breakthroughs, asavailable devices become smaller and individual particles can be precisely controlled in the lab. Newly observedphenomena are often best explained using quantum theory, facilitating new technologies, computational platformsand applications. A broad view of the diverse aspects of the field is provided: quantum physics, communication,quantum computation, simulation of physical systems, physics of qubit platforms, hardware technologies. This interdisciplinary program will give undergraduates from chemistry, computer science, electrical engineering,mathematics, materials science and physics an introduction to the core concepts underlying quantum computing,communication and sensing. Students will gain experience with quantum hardware and theory that prepares themfor careers in the rapidly evolving quantum engineering industries.Quantum Information Science and Engineering MinorThe minor in quantum information science and engineering requires a total of 15 credit hours, distributed as follows: QISE core (three courses / 9 credit hours to be selected from the following four options):CS 3891, when the topic is Quantum computing,ECE 4335 Fundamentals of Quantum EngineeringPHYS 2255 Modern Physics and the Quantum World OR PHYS 3651 Quantum Mechanics IPHYS 2300 Quantum ComputationElective courses (6 credit hours) selected from the following:CHEM 3300 Physical Chemistry: Quantum Mechanics, Spectroscopy, and KineticsCS 3250 AlgorithmsECE 4283 Principles and Models of Semiconductor DevicesECE 4288 OptoelectronicsMath 3320 Error-correcting codes and CryptographyPHYS 2210 Modern OpticsPHYS 3640 Physics of Condensed MatterPHYS 3652 Quantum Mechanics 2Page 456 of 1019 