other classroom participants, including other students. Personal use is defined as use by an individual student forthe purpose of studying or completing course assignments. When students have permission for personal use ofrecordings, they must still obtain written permission from the instructor to share recordings with others. For students registered with the Office of Student Access Services and who have been approved for audio and/orvideo recording of lectures and other classroom activities as a reasonable accommodation, applicable federal lawrequires instructors to permit those recordings. Such recordings are also limited to personal use, except withpermission of the instructor and other students in the class.Academic Advising (Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Blair: All entering students are assigned academic advisers who assist in the planning of programs and courseschedules. Students are required to meet with their advisers prior to registration for each semester. Engineering: A faculty adviser is appointed for each student. This adviser is chosen from the faculty in thestudent’s major, when the major is known. For students who have not chosen a major upon entry, an adviser whospecializes in helping undeclared students explore different pathways and decide upon a major is assigned. If astudent later chooses a different department for his or her major, a corresponding change of adviser is made.Engineering students are required to see their advisers at registration and any other time changes must be made intheir programs of study. Any student who has academic difficulty is expected to see his or her faculty adviser forcounsel. Faculty advisers can also provide useful career guidance. Peabody: Each Peabody undergraduate is assigned an academic adviser who is familiar with his or her major. Thisadviser is generally a faculty member in the major department and is knowledgeable about the courses the studentwill need to complete his or her major. The adviser helps the student determine the courses that are most suitablefor the chosen major and serves as a mentor to the student. However, enrollment in appropriate courses to fulfill degree requirements and knowledge of university policies andregulations regarding courses are the responsibility of the individual student.Course Enrollment & ManagementRegistration (A&S, Blair, VUSE)Normal Course Load (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Change of Course (Blair, VUSE)Pass/Fail (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Withdrawal (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Taking Courses for No Credit (A&S, Blair)Auditing (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Independent Study (A&S, Blair, PBDY)Minimum Graded Credit Hours (A&S)Duplication of Course Content (A&S, PBDY)Repeated Courses (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Undergraduate Enrollment in Graduate School Courses (A&S, VUSE, PBDY)Reserving Credit for Graduate School (A&S, PBDY)Registration (A&S, Blair, VUSE)Page 58 of 1019 