associate dean if the student is left with a course load of fewer than 12 credit hours on a regularly graded basis.Duplication of Course Content (A&S, PBDY)Arts & Science: It is the responsibility of the individual student to avoid duplication in whole or in part of thecontent of any course counting toward the degree. Such duplication may result in the withdrawal of credit. Peabody: It is the responsibility of the individual student to avoid duplication in whole or in part of the content ofany courses offered toward the degree. Such duplication may result in the withdrawal of credit. This policy alsoapplies to Advanced Placement credit. Certain courses (e.g., ensemble, performance instruction, special topics, and directed study) are designated asrepeatable as they contain evolving or iteratively new content. These courses may be taken multiple times forcredit. If a course can be repeated, the number of credits allowable per semester should not exceed 3 credit hourswithout permission.Repeated Courses (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: Most courses offered in the College of Arts and Science may be repeated. If a course was failed thelast time it was taken, credit is awarded when the course is repeated with a passing grade. If a course waspreviously passed, no new credit is earned. If a course previously passed is repeated and failed, credit originallyearned for it is lost. In any case all grades earned are shown on the transcript. Under conditions explained below, themost recent grade in a course replaces the previous grade in determining credit, in computing the grade pointaverage, and in verifying the completion of degree requirements and progress toward the degree. The policy of grade replacement applies when all of the conditions below are met.1. Failed courses may be repeated until passed; passed courses may be repeated only once. 2. Exactly the same course (same department and course number) is completed. A repeated First-Year WritingSeminar must have the same department and section number but cannot be repeated after completion of thesecond semester in residence.3. The course is repeated on a regularly graded basis. This limitation applies even if the course was originallytaken on a P/F basis.4. The course is not one in independent study or directed study.5. A non-W course is taken as repeat credit for a Writing version of the same course that was previously passed.The student loses credit for the writing requirement.6. A W course is taken as repeat credit for a non-Writing version of the same course that was previously passed.The student earns credit for the writing requirement.7. Certain courses (e.g., ensemble, performance instruction, and independent study) are designated asrepeatable as they contain evolving or iteratively new content. These courses may be taken multiple timesfor credit. If a course can be repeated, the number of credit hours allowable per semester will be included inthe course description.In some instances, enrollment in a course similar to one already completed but with a different course number willresult in the award of no credit for the second course and will have no effect on the grade point average. These aredesignated in the departmental course listings. Courses taken in the College of Arts and Science may not be repeated elsewhere for grade replacement. Students are cautioned that while repeating for grade replacement a course previously passed may improve theircumulative grade point average, it may also lead to a problem in meeting minimum credit hours requirements forclass standing because no new credit is earned. Blair: Certain courses, notably performing ensembles and variable credit performance instruction, may be takenPage 66 of 1019 