 Courses taken to satisfy relevant degree requirements for majors in the College of Arts and Science and the Schoolof Engineering may also be counted toward fulfilling the minor.NeuroscienceProgram of ConcentrationHonors ProgramMinor in Neuroscience  DIRECTOR Douglas McMahonDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Meredyth WegenerProfessor: Christos Constantinidis Associate Professor of the Practice: Elizabeth CataniaSenior Lecturers: Amanda Avona, Meredyth Wegener COURSES OFFERED: NSC The study of the nervous system is an interdisciplinary enterprise that draws upon a variety of scientific disciplinesranging from molecular biology and biophysics to computational science and engineering to the study of behaviorand cognition. To meet the challenge of providing training for entry into this exciting and growing field, Vanderbiltoffers an interdisciplinary program of concentration in neuroscience that utilizes expertise from several departmentswithin  the university. The program consists of three components. The first provides for a broad foundation in thebasic sciences and mathematics. Second, the program provides for exposure to each of the general areas ofneuroscience including courses in cellular/molecular, systems, and integrative/cognitive neuroscience. This coursework is supplemented with exposure to the laboratory techniques utilized in neuroscience research. Finally, theprogram allows students to pursue more work in the specific sub-disciplines of neuroscience and in areas of inquiryrelated to neuroscience through elective courses. Students are especially encouraged to participate in research inthe laboratories of neuroscience faculty under the auspices of the undergraduate research courses. More extensiveresearch experience  is available through the Honors Program in Neuroscience. For additional information, seeas.vanderbilt.edu/neuroscience.Program of ConcentrationThe neuroscience major consists of 38 credit hours of course work that includes 8 credit hours of organic chemistryand 30 credit hours of neuroscience and related courses distributed among specific disciplines associated with thestudy of neuroscience. Students majoring in neuroscience are additionally required to complete a core ofintroductory courses in mathematics, statistics or computer science, biology and physics that provide the broadscientific background necessary to the study of neuroscience. The areas and associated course options are listedbelow. Excluding research credit (3861, 3862, 3863, 3864, and 4999), the neuroscience and related courses must bedrawn from at least two departments or programs. Students seeking a second major within the College of Arts and Science may count a maximum of 6 credit hours of2000-or-higher-level course work to meet the requirements of both majors.Required Math and Science CoursesBiological Sciences (8 credit hours)BSCI 1510, 1511, 1510L, and either 1511L or 1512L.Page 437 of 1019 