guarantee that another graduate school will grant credit for such courses. The principles governing this option areas follows:1. Work taken under this option is limited to courses numbered 5000 and above and listed in the catalog of theGraduate School, excluding thesis and dissertation research courses and similar individual research andreading courses.2. The student must, at the time of registration, have a 3.500 grade point average in the preceding twosemesters.3. The total course load, graduate and undergraduate courses, must not exceed 18 hours in that semester.4. The student must obtain the written approval of their academic adviser and the instructor of the course on aform available in the Office of Academic Services.5. Permission for Vanderbilt undergraduates to enroll in graduate courses does not constitute a commitment onthe part of any program to accept the student as a graduate student in the future.6. An undergraduate student exercising this option will be treated as a graduate student with regard to classrequirements and grading standards.Peabody: All students wishing to take 5000–8000-level courses for either undergraduate or graduate credit mustobtain the written approval of their academic advisers, the instructor of the course, and the Office of AcademicServices. Some courses are designed to enroll both undergraduate and graduate/professional students in the sameclass section. Such courses will typically have two course numbers, one in the graduate range (5000–8000) and onein the undergraduate range (usually either 3000– or 4000–level). Unless they wish to take the course for post-baccalaureate credit, undergraduates must register for the course using the undergraduate course number and maydo so without any special permission.Undergraduates wishing to receive approval for graduate credit in 5000–8000-level courses also see ReservingCredit for Graduate School (A&S, PBDY).Reserving Credit for Graduate School (A&S, PBDY)Arts & Science:1. Arts and Science students who are interested in reserving the credit earned in a graduate course (thosenumbered 5000 and higher) should consult with the Graduate School before attempting to register forgraduate courses under this option.2. The work must be in excess of that required for the bachelor’s degree. 3. All of the above criteria apply under this option. 4. Students must declare their intention to reserve this credit on the registration form.5. Permission for Vanderbilt undergraduates to enroll in graduate courses does not constitute a commitment onthe part of any department to accept the student as a graduate student in the future.6. An undergraduate student exercising this option is treated as a graduate student with regard to classrequirements and grading standards.Peabody: A qualified Vanderbilt University senior undergraduate may enroll in courses approved for post-baccalaureate credit and receive credit which, upon the student’s admission into a Peabody College professionalprogram, may be applicable toward the professional degree. The principles governing this option are as follows:1. Work taken under this option is limited to those 5000–8000-level courses approved for post-baccalaureatecredit, excluding thesis and dissertation research courses and similar individual research and readingscourses.2. Such work must be in excess of that required for the bachelor’s degree.3. At the time of registration, the student must have a B average in all prior work to be counted toward thebachelor’s degree, or a B average in all prior work to be counted toward the undergraduate major, ora B average in the preceding two semesters.4. Undergraduate students wishing to count for post-baccalaureate credit courses taken under this option mustconsult the instructor of each course and must, at the time of registration, declare their intention on a formavailable at the Office of Academic Services.5. The student’s total course load (graduate plus undergraduate courses) must not exceed 15 hours during anysemester in which graduate credit is pursued.6. Permission for Vanderbilt undergraduates to enroll in post-baccalaureate courses does not constitute acommitment on the part of any department to accept the student in the future. Courses taken under thisoption are subject to departmental approval before they may be included on post-baccalaureate programs ofstudy.7. An undergraduate student exercising this option will be treated as a post-baccalaureate student with regardto class requirements and grading standards.Page 68 of 1019 