The 4+1 option is currently available in the following departments and programs: English; French; German; History;History of Art and Architecture; Latin American Studies; Mathematics; Medicine, Health, and Society; Philosophy;Political Science; and Psychology. Students are welcome to discuss the Combined B.A./M.A. (4+1) option with any ofthese departments and programs. Admissions OverviewThe Combined B.A./M.A program allows Vanderbilt University students to study for both degrees typically, but notnecessarily, in the same department. Undergraduates with strong academic records may apply for admission to theprogram after the first semester of their junior year. Qualifying students are normally accepted into the program inthe second semester of the junior year. To apply for admission, students will first consult with the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education (350 ButtrickHall), and then submit to the prospective graduate department or program a “Petition to Apply to the CombinedB.A./M.A. (4+1) Degree Program” (available at as.vanderbilt.edu/academics/specialdegree/4plus1.php), a statementof purpose, a formal application to the Graduate School, a preliminary program proposal, two letters ofrecommendation from Vanderbilt faculty, and a current transcript. Application forms are available for download orcan be completed online at vanderbilt.edu/gradschool. GRE scores or other admissions requirements may bespecified by the prospective department. Admission to the 4+1 option is highly selective. An accomplishedacademic record, a demonstrated commitment to pursue graduate study, and a strong endorsement fromVanderbilt faculty are key elements to the successful applicant. Students will be provisionally accepted as graduatestudents, pending completion of all undergraduate requirements. Graduate student status will apply in the fifthyear. AdvisingProspective students should discuss with one of their advisers general information on the program and whether thisprogram is appropriate to their long-term goals. All students are encouraged to discuss their plans and goals withtheir undergraduate pre-major and major adviser. Especially in cases where the intended graduate program differsfrom the undergraduate major, the student is further encouraged to seek advice from the advisers in the graduateprogram. CurriculumStudents in a 4+1 program must satisfy all requirements for both degrees. Advanced Placement (AP) credits willoften be used toward satisfying general curriculum requirements, for a maximum of 18 credit hours. The principaldistinction between this program and the standard graduate program is two-fold: (1) students are allowed to takemaster’s courses while completing the bachelor’s degree, and (2) students are thereby enabled to complete bothdegrees within five years. In order to complete the program in five years, students will be expected to complete most, if not all, of therequirements for their undergraduate degree by the end of the first semester of the senior year. Until allbaccalaureate requirements are fulfilled, the student will follow College of Arts and Science undergraduate policiesand procedures. It is also suggested that students begin taking graduate courses toward the master’s degree in thesecond semester of the senior year. Most graduate programs participating in this option have a non-thesis plan ofstudy requiring 30 graduate credit hours in addition to the requirements for the undergraduate degree. An averageload per semester as a graduate student is 9–12 credit hours. Scholarships and Financial AidStudents who are receiving scholarships or other forms of financial aid as a Vanderbilt undergraduate are advisedthat such aid applies in most cases only toward the completion of the bachelor’s degree or the first four years oftheir studies (which may include their taking some graduate courses during their senior year). Students wishing toPage 119 of 1019 