 SCREENINGStudents seeking teacher licensure must be approved by each department through which licensure is sought.Secondary licensure candidates should contact an adviser or the director of undergraduate studies in theappropriate Arts and Science department(s) to be informed of any specific departmental requirements or standards.There are two points in each teacher education program when undergraduates must complete applications forscreenings by departmental faculty. Screening requirements continue to undergo revision and are subject tochange. Students must meet screening requirements in effect at the time of their application, which may bedifferent from requirements stated below. Screening reviews, described below, are important checkpoints that allowsuccessful students to   advance in the program. Attainment of 2.75 (4.0) cumulative grade point average andcompletion of required courses do not automatically qualify a student for continuation in the program. Faculty evaluation of a student’s qualifications for continuation in a teacher education program include academic,performance, and disposition factors such as the following:1. Dependability (as evidenced by good attendance in classes and practica and the completion of requiredassignments and procedures on time)2. Professional and ethical behavior (honesty, acceptance of responsibility, emotional maturity, etc.)3. Attitude and interpersonal skills (including the ability to work with children and with peers)4. Academic competence (It is possible for a student to meet minimum grade point requirements and pass allcourses and still have specific academic weaknesses which might cause denial of screening applications)5. Teaching competence (as evidenced by successful completion of practica requirements). It is possible for astudent to meet minimum grade point requirements and pass all courses and still have specific performanceweaknesses which might cause denial of screening applications.These criteria rest on the professional judgment of faculty members. Whether a student meets them or not isdetermined by a vote of appropriate faculty. Undergraduate students seeking secondary education licensure mustbe approved by the Department of Teaching and Learning faculty and also by the faculty of College of Arts andScience department(s) for the Arts and Science major(s). Screening deadlines are October 1 and February 1. Undergraduates must apply for Screening I during spring of thesophomore year or fall of the junior year. Screening II must be done in the fall of the senior year, restrictingundergraduate student teaching to the spring of the senior year. Deadlines are firm; late applications will not beaccepted. The Screening I and II application form should be submitted online no later than the deadline. (NOTE:Screening II applications require additional documents when submitted. See specific requirements with theapplication.) Students will be notified of results of the faculty vote at the end of the screening semester. In instances where thereis a negative decision, the student wishing to appeal must do so in writing to the chairperson(s) of the department(s)denying the application. If the initial decision is upheld and the student wishes to continue the appeal, a writtenpetition should be filed with the Administrative Committee of Peabody College.Screening I (Formal Admission to an Undergraduate Teacher Education Program)Each student seeking teacher licensure must be formally admitted to the teacher education program(s) bycompleting an online application for Screening I review by the faculty of the department(s) in which endorsement(s)is/are sought. Candidates normally apply for Screening I during spring of the sophomore year or fall of the junioryear, depending on their program area (candidates should consult their department handbook for timelines in theirprogram area). Deadlines are February 1 in the spring and October 1 in the fall. Students who transfer more than 60hours to Vanderbilt from another institution must apply for admission to the teacher education program by thescreening deadline of their second semester at Vanderbilt. An initial screening review by the faculty will occur soon after the Screening I deadline. If there are concerns noted,the student will be counseled. The final faculty review and decision will be done toward the end of the semester. Page 245 of 1019 