Integrated Bachelor and Master of EngineeringAccelerated Graduate Program in Engineering Honors ProgramsHonors programs allow selected undergraduate students to develop individually through independent study andresearch. Honors programs of each major are described in the Courses of Study section. Requirements vary somewhat but, in general, to qualify for consideration a student should have (a) completed thetechnical course requirements of the first two years, (b) attained a minimum grade average of 3.5 in all work takenfor credit, and (c) shown evidence indicating a capacity for independent study and/or research. Formal admission isby election of the department concerned. Once admitted, candidates remain in the program only if they maintain a3.5 or higher grade point average. Accepted candidates normally begin honors study in the junior year, but exceptions may be made for outstandingseniors. Successful candidates are awarded Honors in their major. This designation appears on their diplomas.Study AbroadVanderbilt's Global Education Office offers approximately thirty programs that allow students to take engineering orcomputer science courses in English abroad, in locations ranging from Dublin to Sydney, Madrid to Hong Kong.There are no language prerequisites for these programs. These programs also allow students to take a range ofliberal arts core, major core, and elective courses abroad. In no case, after matriculating at Vanderbilt, may astudent participate in a Vanderbilt-approved study abroad program through a different university or through anexternal agency and then seek to transfer that credit into Vanderbilt. Financial aid can be used for study abroadduring the academic year, and scholarships are available to support Vanderbilt-approved summer study abroadoptions. Students are encouraged to discuss with their academic advisers how best to incorporate study abroad intotheir four-year plans of study. All students who study abroad must register their travel in advance with Vanderbilt’sinternational security provider. Registration is completed on your behalf when enrolling in a program offered through the Global Education Office.Otherwise, information is available on the GlobalVU website: vanderbilt.edu/global.Teacher EducationStudents who are interested in preparing for licensure as secondary school teachers should plan their programs inconsultation with the associate dean in the School of Engineering and the Director of Secondary Education in theDepartment of Teaching and Learning at Peabody College. More specific information on professional educationcourse requirements can be found under the Licensure for Teaching chapter in the Peabody College section of thiscatalog. Inquiries can also be made to the Office of Teacher Licensure at Peabody.Second MajorIt is possible for a student to combine an engineering field with a second area outside the School of Engineering.The student must obtain prior approval of each department and satisfy the requirements of each major, includingthe requirement regarding minimum grade point average. Students in the School of Engineering may use coursesoutside the School of Engineering for relevant second majors even if those courses also fulfill a degree requirement. Certain double majors involving two programs within the School of Engineering have been approved by the faculty.The approved double majors are biomedical engineering/electrical and computer engineering, and biomedicalengineering/chemical engineering.Page 178 of 1019 