Alternatives to the standard in-class final examination are permitted at the instructor’s discretion. Some examplesare take-home examinations, oral examinations, and term papers; there need not be a final examination ifadequate evaluation procedures have been used during the term. A take-home or oral examination should makeapproximately the same demand on a student’s time as an in-class examination and should be conducted duringthe final examination period. A take-home examination must be distributed at the last regular class meeting andmust be completed by either the primary or the alternate examination date, whichever is later. All examinations are conducted under the Honor System. The instructor’s record of grades given during a course and any final examination papers not returned to studentsmust be kept on file by the instructor for the first month of the semester following the conclusion of the course. Forspring semester and summer session courses, this rule means the first month of the fall semester. Monitoring these regulations is the responsibility of the departments, under the supervision of the Dean’s Office ofUndergraduate Education. Variations from the regulations—such as changing the time of an in-class finalexamination for an entire class—are allowed only on approval of the Administrative Committee.Comprehensive Examinations (A&S)Arts & Science: Any department or interdisciplinary program may require a comprehensive examination of itsmajor students as a condition of graduation.Senior Re-Examination (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: A candidate for graduation who fails not more than one course in the final semester may beallowed one re- examination, provided the course failed prevents the student’s graduation, and provided the studentcould pass the course by passing a re-examination. Certain courses may be excluded from re-examination. The re-examination must be requested through the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education, and if approved, it is givenimmediately after the close of the last semester of the student’s senior year. A student who passes the re-examination will receive a D– in the course. The terms and administration of senior re-examination are theresponsibility of the school that offers the course. Blair: A candidate for graduation who fails not more than one course in the final semester may be allowed one re-examination, provided the course failed would prevent the student’s graduation, and provided the student couldpass the course by passing a re-examination. Certain courses may be excluded from re-examination. The re-examination must   be requested through the student’s associate dean’s office, and, if approved, it is givenimmediately after the close of the last semester of the student’s senior year. A student who passes the re-examination will receive a D- in the course. The terms and administration of senior re-examination are theresponsibility of the school that offers the course. Note: For engineering students taking engineering courses, thesenior re-examination policy applies if a student fails not more than one course in the senior year. Engineering: A candidate for graduation who fails not more than one course in the final semester may be allowedone re-examination, provided the course failed prevents the student’s graduation, and provided the student couldpass the course by passing a re-examination. Certain courses may be excluded from re-examination. The re-examination must be requested through the student’s Dean’s Office, and, if approved, it is given immediately afterthe close of the last semester of the student’s senior year. A student who passes the re-examination will receivea D- in the course. The terms and administration of senior re-examination are the responsibility of the school thatoffers the course. For engineering students, this senior re-examination policy applies if a student fails a course inthe final semester or fails a course in the penultimate semester that is not offered in the final semester, providedthat failure in that one course is the only thing preventing the student’s graduation. Peabody: A candidate for graduation who fails not more than one course in the final semester may be allowed onere-examination, provided the course failed prevents the student’s graduation, and provided the student could passthe course by passing a re-examination. Certain courses may be excluded from re-examination.Page 86 of 1019 