ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF THE PRACTICE Gerald H. Roth (Computer Science)ASSISTANT PROFESSORS Hiba Baroud (Civil and Environmental Engineering), Matthew Berger (Computer Science),Nicole Creanza (Biological Sciences), William Holmes (Physics and Astronomy), Carlos Lopez (Cancer Biology), IpekOguz (Computer Science and Biomedical Engineering), Mikail Rubinov (Biomedical Engineering) COURSES OFFERED: SC The College of Arts and Science and the School of Engineering offer an interdisciplinary minor in scientific computingto help students in the physical, biological, and social sciences as well as engineering acquire the ever-increasingcomputational skills that such careers demand. Students who complete this minor will have a toolkit that includesprogramming skills useful for simulating physical, biological, and social dynamics as well as an understanding ofhow to take advantage of modern software tools to extract meaningful information from small and large data sets. Computation is now an integral part of modern science. Computer simulation allows the study of natural phenomenaimpossible or intractable through experimental means. Astronomers studying the formation of massive black holes,neuroscientists studying brain networks for human memory, economists studying effects of regulation on marketdynamics, and biochemists studying the three-dimensional structure of proteins are united in many of thecomputational challenges they face and the tools and techniques they use to solve these challenges. Students pursuing the scientific computing minor are taught techniques for understanding such complex physical,biological, and social systems. Students are introduced to computational methods for simulating and analyzingmodels of complex systems, to scientific visualization and data mining techniques needed to detect structure inmassively large multidimensional data sets, to high-performance computing techniques for simulating models oncomputing clusters with hundreds or thousands of parallel, independent processors and for analyzing terabytes ormore of data that may be distributed across a massive cloud or grid storage environment. The scientific computing minor at Vanderbilt is supported by faculty and includes students from a wide range ofscientific and engineering disciplines. While the content domain varies, these disciplines often requiresimilar computational approaches, high-performance computing resources, and skills to simulate interactions, modelreal-life systems, and test competing hypotheses. Scientific computing embodies the computational tools andtechniques for solving many of the grand challenges facing science and engineering today. The minor in scientific computing prepares students for advanced course work that combines computational  approaches with a substantive area of science or engineering. It prepares students for directed or independentstudy with a faculty member on a research project. It prepares students for advanced study in graduate school. Itprovides skills that will be attractive to many employers after graduation. The minor in scientific computing is distinct from the minor in computer science. Scientific computing usescomputation as a tool to solve scientific and engineering problems in research and application. It is more focused onsimulation, numerical techniques, high performance computing, and higher-level methods than the minor incomputer science, which is focused on the algorithms, systems, and technologies that enable such methods to bedeveloped and employed. Details of the minor requirements are provided in the School of Engineering section of the catalog, and are alsoavailable at vanderbilt.edu/scientific_computing.SociologyProgram of Concentration in SociologyPage 463 of 1019 