the freshman year, students observe and work in a variety of educational settings in local schools and in classroomsoff campus. Vanderbilt students seeking teacher licensure must apply through the Office of Teacher Licensure at Vanderbilt andmust meet licensure requirements in effect at the time of their graduation, which may be different from licensurerequirements in effect at the time they entered the program. Each year, teacher licensure candidates should consultthe current Vanderbilt Undergraduate Catalog, the Undergraduate Guide to Teacher Licensure published by theVanderbilt Office of Teacher Licensure, and the Undergraduate Handbook published by the Office of Administrationand Records.Honors ProgramThe Honors Program in Special Education offers qualified majors the opportunity to gain experience in conductingresearch in collaboration with a faculty mentor. This experience culminates in the writing and presentation of asenior project. Students who major in special education are eligible to apply for the Honors Program in the spring oftheir sophomore year if they have an overall grade point average of at least 3.5. Students who are accepted into theHonors Program, successfully complete the program, and maintain the required grade point averages, will graduatewith Honors in Special Education. Specific information concerning admission to and the requirements of the HonorsProgram in Special Education is available from Professor Andrea Capizzi, director of undergraduate studies for theDepartment of Special Education. Students should be aware that participation in the Honors Program is quite time-intensive and represents a substantial commitment of effort across at least three semesters. Therefore, potentialparticipants must carefully consider whether they are able to, and want to, devote the required time and energy tothis program.B.S. Degree RequirementsSpecializations are available in high-incidence disabilities/interventionist (grades K–8/6–12 interventionist licensure),and severe disabilities (grades K–12 comprehensive licensure). Total hours will vary depending on the area ofspecialization. Students take a minimum of 120 hours, distributed as follows:Liberal Education Core Requirements. Minimum 60 hours.The Liberal Education Core is composed of required course work from the areas of Communications, Humanities,Mathematics, Science, Cultural Studies, Social Science, and Electives. Listings of all courses that may fulfill theseareas are located online in the Peabody Undergraduate Handbook (https://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php).Writing RequirementSee the “Writing Requirement” section of the general Peabody academic policy section of the UndergraduateCatalog.SpecializationsThe following SPED course is taken as part of the Liberal Education Core, but is also required in each area ofspecialization. SPED 1210. Introduction to Exceptionality The following courses are required in each area of specialization. SPED 1175. Freshman SeminarSPED 2310. Managing Academic and Social BehaviorPage 283 of 1019 