Undergraduates near the beginning of the catalog. All officer education courses designated as eligible for credit maybe taken as open electives. In addition, some officer education courses in history and political science may be takenas part of the Liberal Arts Core while some officer education courses in engineering science may be taken astechnical electives. AFROTC students may count 6 hours of the military courses as open electives.Master of EngineeringThe master of engineering (M.Eng.) is an advanced professional degree awarded by the School of Engineering andespecially designed for engineering practitioners who may prefer to work while doing professional study. It is alsosuitable for individuals who apply directly from undergraduate school—but the thrust of the program is towardprofessional practice in engineering rather than research or teaching. The degree is offered in biomedicalengineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, cyber-physical systems, engineering in surgery andintervention, engineering management, environmental engineering, mechanical engineering, and risk, reliability,and resilience engineering. Students must complete 30 hours of approved course work. A maximum of 6 hours of graduate-level course workmay be transferred from another institution, and a maximum period of seven years is allowed to complete thedegree. An extensive, written design report shall be submitted on a project approved by the student’s projectadviser. Regular admission to the Master of Engineering program normally requires graduation from an approvedundergraduate program in engineering or a related scientific discipline, attainment of a B average in undergraduatecourses applicable to the student’s career goals, and recommendations containing favorable appraisals ofprofessional promise and attitude. A period of successful work experience prior to application to the program willalso be given consideration. For information about admissions, application procedures, and application deadlines forthe Master of Engineering programs, please visit https://engineering.vanderbilt.edu/academics/master-of-engineering-degree. Current undergraduates in the School of Engineering may be eligible to earn the Master of Engineering via theIntegrated Bachelor and Master of Engineering program described in the next section of this catalog. For international students who did not graduate from an institution in a country where English is the officiallanguage, proficiency in English must be shown by a minimum score of 89 on the TOEFL or 7 on the IELTS test.Digital Learning ProgramsThe School of Engineering offers two degree programs online: an M.S. in Computer Science, and an M.Eng. inEngineering Management. Courses in these digital learning programs are only available to students enrolled inthese online degree programs. For information about admissions, application procedures, and application deadlinesfor the School of Engineering Digital Learning programs, please visit the website engineeringonline.vanderbilt.edu.Special Programs in the School of EngineeringHonors ProgramsStudy AbroadTeacher EducationSecond MajorMinorsFocus AreasDual Degree Program with Fisk UniversityPage 177 of 1019 