Campus ResourcesLife at VanderbiltAccommodations for Students with DisabilitiesStudent Access provides accommodations to students with disability-related limitations. Commonaccommodations include, but are not limited to, extended time for testing, assistance with locating signlanguage interpreters, audio textbooks, physical adaptations, supplemental notes, and reading services.Students may also request accommodations related to housing, dining, and transportation. Accommodations aredetermined on an individual, case-by-case basis. Specific concerns pertaining to student accommodations oraccess on campus should be directed to the Office for Student Access (studentaccess@vanderbilt.edu) or bycalling (615) 343-9727. For additional information please visit the Student Access website:vanderbilt.edu/student-access.Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment, Anti-Retaliation, and Sexual MisconductThe Title IX Office (vanderbilt.edu/title-ix) and/or the Equal Opportunity and Access Office (vanderbilt.edu/eoa)investigate allegations of prohibited discrimination, harassment, and retaliation involving members of theVanderbilt community. This includes allegations of sexual misconduct and other forms of power-based personalviolence.If you believe that a member of the Vanderbilt community has engaged in prohibited discrimination, harassment,or retaliation, based on a protected identity other than sex please contact the Equal Opportunity and AccessOffice. If the offense is criminal in nature, you may file a report with Vanderbilt University Police Department.The Title IX Office also facilitates the provision of supportive measures and other accommodations for studentsaffected by sexual misconduct and power-based personal violence. Some examples of these supportivemeasures are mutual no contact directives, adjusted course schedules, and housing adjustments.Specific concerns pertaining to prohibited discrimination, harassment, or retaliation should be directed to theEqual Opportunity and Access Office at (615) 343-9336. Allegations of sex discrimination, sexual misconduct andother forms of power-based personal violence, should be directed to the Title IX Office at (615) 343-9004.Official University CommunicationsCertain federal statutes require that information be delivered to each student. Vanderbilt delivers much of thisinformation via email. Official electronic notifications, including those required by statutes, those required byuniversity policy, and instructions from university officials, will be sent to students’ Vanderbilt email addresses:user.name@vanderbilt.edu. Students are required to be familiar with the contents of official universitynotifications, and to respond to instructions and other official correspondence requiring a response. Somemessages will include links to the YES Message Center, which is a secure channel for official communication of aconfidential nature. However, students should not wait to receive such a message, and should check YESfrequently to remain current on official, confidential communications.The university makes every effort to avoid inundating students with nonessential email (often called “spam”),and maintains separate lists from which students may unsubscribe for announcements of general interest.Directory information should be kept current. Students may report address changes, emergency contactinformation, and missing person contact information via the web by logging in to YES (Your Enrollment Services)https://yes.vanderbilt.edu and clicking on the Personal Information link.Student Records (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)Page 478 of 1019 
Vanderbilt University is subject to the provisions of federal law known as the Family Educational Rights andPrivacy Act (also referred to as FERPA). This act affords matriculated students certain rights with respect to theireducational records. These rights include:1. The right to inspect and review their education records within 45 days of the day the University receives arequest for access. Students should submit to the Office of the University Registrar written requests thatidentify the record(s) they wish to inspect. The Office of the University Registrar will make arrangementsfor access and notify the student of the time and place where the records may be inspected. If the Officeof the University Registrar does not maintain the records, the student will be directed to the Universityofficial to whom the request should be addressed.2. The right to request the amendment of any part of their education records that a student believes isinaccurate or misleading. Students who wish to request an amendment to their educational record shouldwrite the University official responsible for the record, clearly identify the part of the record they wantchanged, and specify why it is inaccurate or misleading. If the University decides not to amend the recordas requested by the student, the student will be notified of the decision and advised of his or her right to ahearing.3. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student’seducation records to third parties, except in situations that FERPA allows disclosure without the student’sconsent. These exceptions include:Disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A “school official” is a personemployed by the University in an administrative, supervisory, academic or research, or support-staff position (including University law enforcement personnel and health staff); contractors,consultants, and other outside service providers with whom the University has contracted; amember of the Board of Trust; or a student serving on an official University committee, such as theHonor Council, Student Conduct Council, or a grievance committee, or assisting another schoolofficial in performing his or her tasks. A school official has a legitimate educational interest if theofficial needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility.Disclosure to parents if the student is a dependent for tax purposesDisclosure to appropriate individuals (e.g., parents/guardians, spouses, housing staff, health carepersonnel, police, etc.) where disclosure is in connection with a health or safety emergency andknowledge of such information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or otherindividuals.Disclosure to a parent or legal guardian of a student, information regarding the student’s violationof any federal, state, or local law, or of any rule or policy of the institution, governing the use orpossession of alcohol or a controlled substance if the University has determined that the studenthas committed a disciplinary violation with respect to the use or possession and the student isunder the age of 21 at the time of the disclosure to the parent/guardian.Disclosure to various authorized representatives of government entities (such as, compliance withStudent and Exchange Visitors Information System [SEVIS], Solomon Amendment, etc.).FERPA provides the university the ability to designate certain student information as “directory information.”Directory information may be made available to any person without the student’s consent unless the studentgives notice as provided for, below. Vanderbilt has designated the following as directory information: thestudent’s name, address, telephone number, email address, student ID photos, major field of study, school,classification, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, weights and heights of members ofathletic teams, dates of attendance, degrees and awards received, the most recent previous educational agencyor institution attended by the student, and other information that would not generally be considered harmful oran invasion of privacy if disclosed. Any student who does not wish disclosure of directory information shouldnotify the Office of the University Registrar in writing. No element of directory information as defined above isreleased for students who request nondisclosure except as required by statute.The request for nondisclosure does not apply to class rosters in online class management applications, or toresidential rosters—or rosters of groups a student may join voluntarily—in online, co-curricular engagementapplications, or rosters of other information on the websites of student organizations that a student may join.Neither class rosters in online class management applications, nor residential rosters in online co-curricularengagement applications, are available to the public.As of January 3, 2012, the U.S. Department of Education’s FERPA regulations expand the circumstances underwhich students’ education records and personally identifiable information (PII) contained in such records—including Social Security Numbers, grades, or other private information—may be accessed without consent. First,the U.S. Comptroller General, the U.S. Attorney General, the U.S. Secretary of Education, or state and localPage 479 of 1019 