down into five key skills development areas: 1) values and ethics, 2) personal development, 3) officership, 4)leadership, and 5) tactics and techniques. The class emphasizes individual leadership values and characteristicswith a focus on Leadership Theory and Interpersonal Communications, Army Values, Troop Leading Procedures,Problem Solving, and Team Building in a military environment. [2] MS-PC 2150L. Foundations of Leadership Lab. This lab builds upon the classroom topics in MS-PC 2150 andintroduces the process of understanding and defining leaders in order to develop leadership skills appropriate forfuture commissioned Army officers. The lab is broken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2)values and ethics, 3) personal development, 4) professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, andprocedures. The lab emphasizes individual leadership values and characteristics with a focus on leadership theoryand interpersonal communications, Army values, troop leading procedures, problem solving, and team building in amilitary environment. [1] MS-PC 2160. Foundations of Tactical Leadership. MS-PC 2160 builds upon MS-PC 2150. The class is brokendown into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personal development, 4)professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During this class we will focus onindividual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams and groups insituational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [2] MS-PC 2160L. Foundations of Tactical Leadership Lab. MS-PC 2160L builds upon MS-PC 2150 and MS-PC2150L. The lab is broken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personaldevelopment, 4) professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During the lab we willfocus on individual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams andgroups in situational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [1]JUNIOR YEARMS-PC 3110. Leadership and Problem Solving. This course builds upon your skills developed in MS-PC 2160and continues to develop leadership, officership skills, self-awareness, and critical thinking skills through challengingscenarios related to small-unit tactical operations. Cadets receive systematic and specific feedback on theirleadership values, attributes, skills, and actions. Prerequisite: MS-PC 1210, 1230, 2150, and 2160. [3] MS-PC 3110L. Leadership and Problem Solving Lab.  MS-PC 3110L builds upon MS-PC 3110 and MS-PC 2150L.The lab is broken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personaldevelopment, 4) professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During the lab we willfocus on individual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams andgroups in situational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [1] MS-PC 3120. Applied Team Leadership. Challenging scenarios related to small-unit tactical operations are usedto develop self-awareness and critical thinking skills. Students receive systematic and specific feedback on theirleadership values, attributes, skills, and actions. Prerequisite: MS-PC 3110. [3] MS-PC 3120L. Applied Team Leadership Lab. MS-PC 3120L builds upon MS-PC 3120 and MS-PC 3110L. The labis broken down into five key skill development areas: 1) leadership, 2) values and ethics, 3) personal development,4) professional officership, and 5) various tactics, techniques, and procedures. During the lab we will focus onindividual leadership development where the student begins to plan, organize, and lead small teams and groups insituational training exercises. Students begin to apply leadership skills at the smallest unit level. [1]SUMMER BETWEEN JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARCadet Leader Course (1 Cr) — All students pursuing a commission as an Army Officer must complete AdvancedCamp during the summer between their junior and senior year. Students may apply for 1 credit hour of academiccredit with the designation of interdisciplinary internship (INDS 3881). This course may be taken once and repeatedonce for a maximum of 2 credits on a Pass/Fail basis only.Page 29 of 1019 