Division of Unclassified StudiesThe Division of Unclassified Studies provides an opportunity to take undergraduate courses at Vanderbilt as follows:a. adults not interested in working toward a degree,b. visiting students working toward a degree at another institution (students in this category may not remainenrolled in the division for more than two regular semesters and one summer session), andc. rising junior and senior students in high school who have received special permission to enroll in courses forcollege credit.Such students register in the Division of Unclassified Studies. Records are kept of their work, and a transcript may bemade available to them as it would be if they were regularly enrolled at Vanderbilt. Work taken in the division maybe transferred to a degree-granting unit of the university provided it is work that will count as part of the program ofthat unit. Work so transferred may not amount to more than one-fourth of the requirements for the Vanderbiltdegree. Requests for transfer to a Vanderbilt degree-granting school must be made to the Office of UndergraduateAdmissions. Division of Unclassified Studies students are not eligible for intra-university transfer. Students who want to enroll in the Division of Unclassified Studies must apply and be admitted to the division atleast one week before the first day of classes for the term or session they wish to attend. Requests for exceptions tothe admission criteria must be addressed in writing to the vice provost for university enrollment affairs and dean ofadmissions and financial aid, whose decision is final. All university regulations, including the Honor System, apply to students registered in the Division of UnclassifiedStudies. Degree candidates have priority in enrollment at Vanderbilt, and students registering in the Division of UnclassifiedStudies should be prepared for this contingency. DUS students must meet all course prerequisites. Permission of theOffice of the Dean is required for enrollment in some courses. Tuition is charged at the standard rate. Division of Unclassified Studies students are not charged health insurance fees, and do not have access to studenthealth services. Summer SessionThe ten-week summer session begins in early June and ends early in August. In addition, some units of theuniversity offer an accelerated four-week Maymester. Vanderbilt offers the summer program for regularly enrolledstudents at the university, for part-time students, and for students enrolled during the regular year in other collegesand universities (visiting students).  Summer courses are normally offered by the College of Arts and Science, Blair School of Music, the School ofEngineering, the Graduate School, the School of Nursing, and Peabody College.  Some courses extend over the entire summer session and complete the work of a full semester. Others are offeredin modular units of eight, six, five, or four weeks, for full semester credit. Still other summer courses complete a fullsemester’s work in the first five-week or second five-week half of summer session, with classes meeting twice asmany hours per week. In full-year courses offered in summer, the work of the first semester is covered in the firsthalf-session, the work of the second semester in the second half.  Classrooms, residence halls, libraries, and dining halls are air conditioned. The David Williams II Student Recreationand Wellness Center and other athletic facilities are open in the summer. Information about the summer session isavailable on request from the Division of Unclassified Studies or from each school’s Office of Academic Services.Students may also visit vanderbilt.edu/summer for additional information. Page 45 of 1019 