demonstration of proficiency equivalent to either of the preceding options; orparticipation in one of the Vanderbilt intensive-language programs in Europe (students participating inVanderbilt's predominantly English-language program in Europe must complete course work through theintermediate level in one European language, or demonstrate equivalent proficiency).European languages recognized for the major include Albanian, Bulgarian, Czech, Croatian/Bosnian/Serbian, Danish,Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Ladino (Judeo-Spanish), Italian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romani,Romanian, Russian, Slovak, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Ukrainian and Yiddish. Other languages may be approved bythe major adviser. Independent Study (3 credit hours)Students will complete EUS 3850, Independent Readings and Research supervised by a professor in EUS or outsidethe program with expertise in the field; normally completed in the junior or senior year. Electives (12–18 credit hours)Students choose four courses in EUS (usually above EUS 2204; an additional core course may count as one elective).No more than two courses may be substituted by courses taken outside of EUS either from individually approvedcourses or courses taken abroad with the approval of the DUS. Students majoring in EUS are advised to selectcourses from the social sciences and humanities that complement their areas of special interest and thematic focus. Other Issues Relating to the MajorNormally, no more than 6 credit hours of work in 1000-level courses may be counted toward the major. However,students who have fulfilled their language requirements by demonstrating equivalent proficiency or throughparticipation in a Vanderbilt approved study program in Europe may count up to two 1000- and/or 2000-levellanguage courses in a European language toward their major. Students seeking a second major may count a maximum of 6 credit hours of course work to meet requirements inboth majors.Honors ProgramThe Program in European Studies offers qualified majors the option of completing a portion of their majorrequirements in an Honors Program. Students engage in interdisciplinary reading, consultations with faculty, andresearch on the overarching theme of their program of concentration. To be admitted to the program students musthave attained a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.300 and a minimum grade point average of 3.300 inall courses that count toward the EUS major; identify an adviser for the honors thesis; submit a detailed descriptionof their proposed program of study for approval by the director of EUS; complete 3 credit hours of independentresearch (normally EUS 4998); complete 3 credit hours of credit in EUS 4960, Senior Tutorial, that involvesresearching and writing a senior honors thesis of approximately fifty pages; successfully defend the honors thesisbefore a committee normally consisting of the adviser, the director of EUS, and another faculty member. Informationconcerning the Honors Program is available from the director of EUS. College regulations governing honorsprograms may be found in this catalog under Honors Programs, Special Programs for Arts and Science.The Minor in European StudiesThe EUS minor is a good complement to a major in anthropology, economics, history, literary studies, philosophy,and political science. It consists of a minimum of 18 credit hours of course work and requires students to take threeof the EUS core courses and three electives from the EUS catalog. One of the major electives may be replaced by acourse from another department or program with the prior approval of the director of EUS. A background in amodern foreign language is highly recommended. Core courses (9 credit hours)EUS 2201, European Society and Culture, or EUS 2203, The Idea of EuropePage 382 of 1019 