HODI 3260. Education in the Asia-Pacific Region: Development, Reform, and Innovation [3]HODI 3270. Global Sustainable Development [3] HOD Capstone. 12-15 hours HOD 4949. Capstone Design [3]HOD 4950. Capstone Partnership [3 in summer, 6 in Fall or Spring]HOD 4951. Critical Reflex & Systems Thinking [3]HOD 4952. Map Future Personal and Professional Development [3]HOD 4953. Analysis and Contribution [3]Honors ProgramThe HOD Honors Program is designed for highly motivated students who want to pursue intensive research. It offersoutstanding undergraduate HOD majors an opportunity to become involved in research teams with professors andgraduate students. The program will help students develop skills in empirical research methods, writing, andpresentation to provide a firm foundation for advanced graduate or professional training. The HOD Honors Programsrequires a serious time commitment to a research project. Application: Students may apply for the honors program at any time from the second semester of their sophomoreyear to the summer before their senior year. The application must be approved by the faculty member with whomthe student will work, and will outline the nature of the research project, which will ordinarily be an extension of thefaculty member’s ongoing research. Students must have completed HOD 1250, HOD 1300, HOD 2100, HOD 2500,and a college statistics course and have an overall GPA of at least 3.6. This minimum GPA must be maintained tograduate with honors. Applications will be evaluated by the HOD Honors Director, who will decide on admission, taking into considerationthe numbers of applicants. Requirements: Upon admission students will complete two (not necessarily back-to-back) semesters of honorsseminar (for six total hours of credit), which satisfy one course in two HOD domains of the student's choosing, plusthe writing course requirement. In the course, they will learn advanced research methods. In addition to the honorsseminar, the student will work with the faculty sponsor on research for up to ten hours per week. Students mustcomplete a pilot study (first semester) and an empirical (quantitative or qualitative) honors thesis (second semester)that is approved by two faculty readers, and orally present both pilot study and thesis. Although not required,honors projects may be coordinated with the HOD Capstone with permission of the instructor, the student's Honor'sadvisor, and HOD Capstone Director, and may be taken in the same semester as Capstone. Students are additionallyencouraged to attend departmental colloquia and to take at least one graduate course in their area of interest. Awards of departmental Honors in HOD will depend on successful completion of the course and the thesis. HighestHonors and Best HOD Honors Thesis may be awarded by vote of the Honors Committee.The Minor in Human and Organizational DevelopmentThe HOD minor requires 15 unique hours that are not counted toward any other major or minor. The minor inhuman and organizational development consists of 18 hours in the following courses: REQUIRED COURSE. 3 hours.Page 280 of 1019 