CurriculumScholarships and Financial Aid  For information on the College Scholars program and departmental honors, please see the section titled Honors. The Optional MinorA minor is a program within a recognized area of knowledge offering students more than a casual introduction to thearea but less than a major in it. Although the completion of a minor is not a degree requirement, students may electto complete the courses specified for one or more minors. A student who completes all designated courses in aminor with a grade point average of at least 2.000 will have the minor entered on the transcript at the time ofgraduation. Minors may be combined with any departmental major or interdisciplinary major, but minors may not be earned inthe department or program of the major. Each minor must, however, include at least 15 credit hours that are beingcounted solely toward the minor. Courses may not be taken on a P/F basis if they are offered in the department ofthe minor or if they are being counted toward an interdisciplinary minor (see Academic Regulations). Minors consist of a minimum of five courses of 3 or more credit hours each. Many minors require a greater numberof credit hours and specific courses. When a minor is offered in a discipline that offers a major, only those coursesthat count toward the major may be counted toward the minor. Students should refer to the appropriate sections of this catalog for specific requirements. Minors available atpresent are listed below. Students should declare their intention to pursue specific minors by completing forms available in the Dean’s Officeof Undergraduate Education as well as the various departmental and program offices. Departments and programsassign advisers to students who declare minors in their respective areas. Students have the responsibility to knowand satisfy all requirements for minors that they intend to complete. Students may not add or change a minor after the final day of classes in the second semester of their senior year. Optional minors are offered in the following fields and interdisciplinary programs: 
Page 113 of 1019 