education authorities (“Federal and State Authorities”) may allow access to student records and PII withoutconsent to any third party designated by a Federal or State Authority to evaluate a federal- or state-supportededucation program. The evaluation may relate to any program that is “principally engaged in the provision ofeducation,” such as early childhood education and job training, as well as any program that is administered by aneducation agency or institution.Second, Federal and State Authorities may allow access to education records and PII without consent, toresearchers performing certain types of studies, in certain cases even when the University objects to or does notrequest such research. Federal and State Authorities must obtain certain use-restriction and data securitypromises from the third parties that they authorize to receive PII, but the Authorities need not maintain directcontrol over the third parties.In addition, in connection with Statewide Longitudinal Data Systems, State Authorities may collect, compile,permanently retain, and share without student consent, PII from education records, and may track studentparticipation in education and other programs by linking such PII to other personal information that they obtainfrom other Federal or State data sources, including workforce development, unemployment insurance, childwelfare, juvenile justice, military service, and migrant student records systems.If a student believes the university has failed to comply with FERPA, he or she may file a complaint using theStudent Complaint and Grievance Procedures as outlined in the Student Handbook. If dissatisfied with theoutcome of this procedure, students may file a written complaint with the Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S.Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20202-5920.Questions about the application of the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act should bedirected to the Office of the University Registrar or to the Office of General Counsel.The Vanderbilt Honor Code and the Honor SystemVanderbilt University takes pride in its honor code and its student-run honor system.The statement of the honor code is shared by all ten schools of the university:Vanderbilt University students pursue all academic endeavors with integrity. They conduct themselveshonorably, professionally, and respectfully in all realms of their studies in order to promote and secure anatmosphere of dignity and trust. The keystone of our honor system is self-regulation, which requires cooperationand support from each member of the University community.The Honor System is a time-honored tradition that began with the first classes at Vanderbilt in 1875. Studentsestablished the system and continue to manage it today. It rests on the presumption that all work submitted aspart of course requirements is produced by the student, without help from any other source unlessacknowledgement is given in a manner prescribed by the instructor. Cheating, plagiarizing, or otherwisefalsifying results of study are specifically prohibited. The system applies not only to examinations but also towritten work and computer programs submitted to instructors. Detailed descriptions of Honor System violationsand Undergraduate Honor Council procedures are published in the Student Handbook, available on the web atvanderbilt.edu/student_handbook.Responsibility for the preservation of the system falls on the individual student who, by registration,acknowledges the authority of the Undergraduate Honor Council. Students are expected to demand ofthemselves and their fellow students complete respect for the Honor Code. Ignorance of the regulations is not adefense for abuse of regulations. All incoming students attend a mandatory signing ceremony and educationalprogram on the Honor System at the beginning of the fall semester. Additional information about the HonorPage 480 of 1019 