Teacher EducationEarly Childhood and Elementary EducationSecondary Education Special Education  Students interested in preparing for licensure as early childhood, elementary, special education, or secondary schoolteachers should meet with Associate Dean Roger Moore, College of Arts and Science, as soon as possible to initiatediscussion with appropriate personnel in teacher education. Specific information on program requirements will be found under Licensure for Teaching in the Peabody Collegesection of this catalog. Early Childhood and Elementary EducationStudents interested in preparing to teach early childhood or elementary school pupils major in a single discipline oran interdisciplinary program in the College of Arts and Science as well as in education at Peabody College. Secondary EducationThe College of Arts and Science and Peabody College offer teacher education programs leading to secondary schoolteacher licensure in the following fields: EnglishMathematicsScience (Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Physics)Social Studies (History and Political Science). Economics, Psychology, and Sociology may become additionalendorsement areas for students who also have selected history or political science as an endorsement area. Students major in an academic discipline in the College of Arts and Science and complete a second major ineducation at Peabody College. Special EducationStudents interested in preparing to teach children with special needs major in special education at Peabody College.Areas of teacher licensure available are mild and moderate disabilities, multiple and severe disabilities, visualimpairment, hearing impairment, and early childhood special education.TheatreProgram of Concentration in TheatreHonors ProgramMinor in TheatrePage 475 of 1019 
  CHAIR Phillip N. FranckINTERIM CHAIR Claire Sisco KingDIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES Elizabeth HaynesProfessors, Emeriti: Jon Hallquist, Terryl HallquistProfessors: Elizabeth Essin, Phillip Franck, Mary Leah LoweAssociate Professor: Norbert RossAssistant Professors: Elizabeth Cizmar, Kristyl TiftAssistant Professors of the Practice: Hannah Chalman, Elizabeth Haynes, Alexandra Sargent CappsWriter in Residence: Krista Knight COURSES OFFERED: THTR Vanderbilt's Department of Theatre offers a vital center of innovative scholarship, teaching, creative expression, andexploration. The study of theatre introduces students to a major form of literature and performing arts, therebydeveloping a familiarity with one of the greatest cultural heritages and an understanding of human behavior andcivilization as it is reflected through the ages. Theatre uniquely shapes perceptions about life into an activeexperience. Because this process encourages critical thought and discussion, the department provides a singularand important aspect of a liberal arts education through its production season and course work. Viewed as apractical extension of the department’s curriculum, plays are produced in Neely Auditorium, a laboratory wherestudents learn to form creative expressions as well as to evaluate and to critique them. On one level, the Department of Theatre helps the general liberal arts student develop reasoned standards ofcriticism and an understanding of the intimate correlation between the theatre and the society which it reflects,preparing Vanderbilt graduates for successful careers in theatre as well as other fields of interest. For its majors andminors, the department provides a more detailed and specialized study of the major components of theatricalendeavor, allowing opportunities for the practical application of course work in the productions staged at thetheatre. In many cases, the department helps to prepare students with professional aspirations as either artists orteachers in their specialized area of interest. Work in the productions at Vanderbilt reflects the instruction that occurs in the classroom at Neely Auditorium.Because the academic endeavors require hands-on, project-oriented teaching, students can expect small-to-medium class enrollments and numerous opportunities for exposure to faculty instruction outside of the classroom.The department’s curriculum includes courses in acting, directing, design, technology, dramatic literature, theatrehistory and criticism, and playwriting. The Department of Theatre frequently offers a Maymester program of study oftheatre in London and the U.K. Students can either major or minor in theatre at Vanderbilt. The major consists of aminimum of 35 credit hours that include courses in acting, directing, dramatic literature, theatre history/criticism,design, technology, and stagecraft. For the minor, students select one of three more narrowly focused tracks(dramatic literature/theatre history, acting/directing, or design/technology) and complete a minimum of 18 credithours of course work. Students may also learn about theatre by studying with Coe Artists, distinguished guest-artist professionals broughtto campus each year to benefit majors, minors, and those with a serious interest in theatre. Weeklong masterclasses are taught by playwrights, actors, designers, and directors from the professional world of theatre, television,and film. Previous Coe Artists have included such celebrated artists as Tim Miller, Sojourn Theatre, Katie Pearl, LisaD’Amour, and Shawn Hall. Theatre also brings professional directors and designers as Coe Artists to campus to workwithin the department's production season.Page 476 of 1019 