techniques in the digital humanities. Students thus have the opportunity to learn several ancient and medievallanguages of Europe and the Middle East and to pursue experiential learning overseas, from intensive modernlanguage study to archaeological fieldwork to the investigation of evolving cultural and natural landscapes. Majors in classical and Mediterranean studies are introduced to the distinctive geography and history of the regionbut choose their courses in one of three tracks. These tracks have shared content but offer different viewpoints andtraining. Majors who expect to apply for graduate study should work closely with an adviser to devise anappropriate curriculum. Students who pursue Classical and Near Eastern Languages and Cultures investigate one or more ancient tomedieval cultural tradition(s) in the Greco-Roman and Near Eastern spheres through the study of original texts andtheir historical setting, such as Greek tragedy, Latin oratory, Hebrew scripture, the Qur’an, or early French romance. Students who pursue Mediterranean Archaeology explore human diversity and experience from Classical Antiquityto the Middle Ages through the study of material and visual culture. They too learn to read textual sources whileacquiring the skills of archaeological and art-historical research.Students who pursue Mediterranean Studies, the most flexible track for a broad range of interests, can choose toengage with a variety of ancient, medieval, or modern topics through focused or comparative study. The Department of Classical and Mediterranean Studies also offers a minor in Mediterranean Archaeology and aminor in Mediterranean Studies. A student cannot earn more than one minor in the program. The Honors Program requires the production of a thesis representing advanced, original, and substantial research. Students are strongly recommended to pursue study abroad in the Mediterranean or an adjacent region. Thedepartment has long supported the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies, the American Academy in Rome, andthe American School of Classical Studies in Athens. Many different international experiences are possible throughVanderbilt-approved semester programs, Maymesters, research projects, and summer study, for example, in Italy,Greece, and Israel. Students are encouraged to participate in local and regional conferences, where they can sharethe results of collaborative or independent work. Those concentrating on Greek and/or Latin language who qualifyacademically are invited to join Eta Sigma Phi, the national classics honor society. Program of Concentration in Classical and Mediterranean StudiesStudents majoring in Classical and Mediterranean Studies must take ten courses, including one foundation course(CLAS 1010). The major is arranged into three tracks and an honors track. Students must formally declare a track 1–3 at the time the major is declared. A score of 4 or 5 on the AP Latin exam earns 3 hours of credit for Latin 2202,which may be applied toward any of the major tracks. Any course for which a student has earned credit will countfor one and only one of the requirements or sub-requirements for any of the major tracks or minors. Track 1: Classical and Near Eastern Languages and Cultures30–34 total credit hours including:1. One foundation course: CLAS 1010 (3 credit hours);2. Language/Literature: Five courses from Course List A (15 credit hours, or 19 credit hours if including ARA1101– 1102);3. Culture: Four courses from Course Lists B–D numbered 2060 or above (12 credit hours).Latin courses at the 1000 level do not count toward this major track. Students who fulfill their language/literaturePage 333 of 1019 