Assistant Professors of the Practice: Husile Bai, Lily ClaibornePrincipal Senior Lecturer: Daniel J. MorganSenior Lecturer: Ann Klyce COURSES OFFERED: EES The Earth and environmental sciences are aimed at understanding Earth’s governing processes—how they operateand interact—as well as interpreting Earth’s dynamic history—its age and origin as recorded in rocks and thelandscape— and finally, at understanding how geological processes affect modern environmental and ecologicalsystems, including humans. Among the natural sciences, ours is the quintessential interdisciplinary science,providing vital perspective on how Earth’s physical and geochemical template simultaneously sustains andthreatens life, and influences human interactions with Earth. The Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (EES) offers an integrated Earth and Environmental Sciencesundergraduate major leading to the B.A. degree. Students majoring in EES take a core set of science courses withlab, computational, and field components, design an academic plan that allows them to develop expertise in anarea of interest within EES. The comparatively small size of the faculty and student body allows many opportunitiesfor faculty-student interaction. Students use the major as preparation for graduate study, for careers inenvironmental and climate science, geology, and natural resource and energy management, and for related fieldssuch as land use planning, teaching, conservation, business, law, or engineering. Research programs in the department, which in many cases involve students, employ field, analytical, andexperimental methods. A wide variety of Earth processes are investigated, ranging from the migration of fluids andgeneration of magmas in the Earth’s crust, to the movement of mass and energy across land, ocean, andatmosphere, to the evolution of life and ecosystems, to the impacts of humans on the environment. Study areas, inaddition to Tennessee, include the southwestern United States, the Pacific northwest, Florida, Colorado, Antarctica,South Asia, Brazil, Italy, Greenland, Peru, Namibia, the Bahamas, Australia, and New Zealand. Program of Concentration in Earth and Environmental SciencesThe Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences offers two tracks to an EES major, to support the preparationof future scientists and students aimed at science-related pursuits. Both tracks provide a solid grounding in theintegrated Earth and environmental sciences while allowing flexibility in the particular focus and supportcommunication, quantitative, and computational skills.Track 1This track is designed for students who aim to build a strong, integrated earth and environmental science foundationto inform discussions and work in policy, education, law, advocacy, community engagement, conservation, finance,etc. but do not aim to work as practicing scientists. This pathway pairs well with programs in Climate andEnvironmental Studies, Environmental Sociology, Communication of Science and Technology, Secondary Education,and other non-STEM majors that, together, will prepare students for the interdisciplinary nature of addressing theEarth and environmental challenges of our future. Track 1 of the EES major is organized into six parts, beginning with two of three introductory courses that serve asentry points. The second part involves a core course that provides all EES majors with a common background inways of thinking in Earth and environmental sciences. This core course must be completed before students mayenroll in  more advanced EES courses. As Earth and Environmental sciences employ techniques and foundationalknowledge from all other STEM fields, part 3 of the major builds skills in supporting STEM fields through threeclasses: one in scientific computing, one in statistics, and one additional supporting science elective. Page 359 of 1019 