Blair: During the week after mid-semester, the Office of the University Registrar posts deficiency notices forstudents whose mid-semester grade in any course is a C– or below or whose work is incomplete (I). (Deficiencynotices are found in the Academic Detail in YES at yes.vanderbilt.edu.) Deficiencies are issued as a matter ofinformation and warning. Deficiencies do not show on transcripts, but information is sent to the faculty advisers andmay be sent to parents of those students who have submitted a FERPA Release form indicating permission torelease academic information to specific individuals. A student who receives a deficiency notice is required to meet with the faculty adviser before the deadline forwithdrawal at the end of the week. A student with deficiencies in two or more courses or any senior who receives adeficiency notice is also required to meet with the associate dean before the deadline for withdrawal (usually Fridayof the week after mid-semester).Temporary Grades (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science, Blair, Engineering, Peabody: Temporary grades are placeholders that are assigned underdefined circumstances and are not replacements for failing grades. Missing work must be completed by the deadlinespecified by the instructor (usually before the end of the second week of classes in the next regular term but nolater than the end of the following semester) after which the permanent grade is recorded (either the newlyassigned or default grade). The default grade is calculated by assigning zero points for work not submitted.Temporary grades are not calculated in the GPA, but a student who receives a temporary grade is ineligible for theDean's List. An undergraduate student cannot graduate with any temporary grades on their record.The following temporary grades are available I: Incomplete To be assigned only if the following conditions apply:1. An extenuating circumstance has emerged after the course withdrawal deadline2. The student is up to date on all work prior to the extenuating circumstance3. The student successfully completed at least 60% of the assigned work throughout the semester4. The student requests the incomplete before the end of classes5. The student has been attending a significant majority of the classes M: Missed Final Examination or Final Evaluation To be assigned only if the following conditions apply:1. The student misses only the final examination or final evaluation and promptly informs the instructor as tothe extenuating circumstances for missing the final exam/evaluation. In the absence of prompt notification ofextenuating circumstances, a grade of zero for the final exam/evaluation is recorded.2. The student could pass the course if the final examination is successfully completed. (The grade of F is givenif the student could not pass the course even with the final examination.)Transfer Credit (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: It is the student’s responsibility to provide all of the information required by the Office of theUniversity Registrar to assess the program for which transfer of credit is requested. Work presented for transfermust be from a regionally accredited college and is subject to evaluation in light of the degree requirements of theCollege of Arts and Science. Credit will not be awarded for independent study, physical education, or danceperformance courses. Work transferred to Vanderbilt from another institution will not carry with it a grade point average. No course inwhich a grade below C– was received, or which was taken on a Pass/Fail basis, will be credited toward a degreeoffered by the College of Arts and Science. The question of credit in the College of Arts and Science for previousPage 75 of 1019 
work done at another institution must be settled in advance of the student’s first registration. Transfer students must spend at least four full semesters, including the last two semesters, enrolled in the Collegeof Arts and Science. They must earn at least 60 credit hours and complete at least one writing course in fulfillmentof the writing requirement while so enrolled. Blair: Transfer courses are often taken as free electives, but they may also earn liberal arts core credit. They maynot fulfill the music core requirements, count as part of the last 30 hours of residence, serve as repeat credit, or betaken on a Pass/Fail basis. Work transferred from another institution will not carry with it a grade point average. Nocourse in which a grade below C– was received will be credited toward the B.Mus. or B.Mus.Arts. It is the student’sresponsibility to provide all of the information required by the Office of the University Registrar to assess theprogram for which transfer of credit is requested. Work presented for transfer must be from a regionally accreditedcollege or university. Information on the evaluation process and policies is availableat registrar.vanderbilt.edu/transfer-credit. Summer studies. Students enrolled at Blair may receive transfer credit for summer courses taken at anotherregionally accredited two-year or four-year college or university. This may include work at festivals or camps, ifoffered through a regionally accredited institution. To qualify for summer credit, a student must be in good standing,consult the Office of Academic Services, and submit courses for evaluation through the Transfer Credit portal in YES.A detailed course syllabus is required in order for a course to be evaluated. Deadline for pre- approval is April 1. Semester work at another institution. Students wanting to receive transfer credit for a semester of work at anotherregionally accredited institution must receive approval in advance from the associate dean. To qualify for suchcredit, the student must be in good standing and must present a plan that makes clear the educational rationale forsuch work, the ways in which it supplements the Vanderbilt curriculum, and the equivalence of standards to those atVanderbilt. Approval of the overall plan must be followed by approval of specific courses by the associate dean andsubmission of courses through the transfer credit evaluation process in YES. A detailed course syllabus is required inorder for a course to be evaluated. Students enrolled full time (i.e., carrying at least 12 credit hours) during a regular(fall or spring) semester are assumed to be engaged in full-time study at Vanderbilt. Such students are notpermitted to take additional course work elsewhere, for transfer credit, during the semester. This includes online  courses as well as courses offered by nearby institutions. Engineering: Work that a student contemplates taking at a college or university other than Vanderbilt aftermatriculating to VU is treated as transfer work and must be approved in advance in writing through the YES TransferCredit application. The institution must have appropriate regional accreditation. It is the student’s responsibility toprovide all information needed for an assessment of the program and course(s) for which transfer credit isrequested. Students must upload a detailed syllabus, which then must be approved by the Office of the UniversityRegistrar, the relevant Vanderbilt University department, and the School of Engineering Dean’s Office. Worktransferred to Vanderbilt from another institution will not be included in the Vanderbilt grade point average. Notransfer credit course in which a grade below C- was earned or that was taken after the start of the penultimateVanderbilt semester will be credited toward a degree offered by the School of Engineering. A course a student hastaken at Vanderbilt may not be repeated in another institution to obtain a higher grade or to obtain credit. Studentswho have been dismissed from Vanderbilt and subsequently return to Vanderbilt are not eligible to receive transfercredit for any classes taken during the period of dismissal. Students cannot take courses for transfer credit at orthrough another institution while simultaneously enrolled in a semester at Vanderbilt unless authorized in advanceby the School’s Administrative Committee. Peabody: Students who transfer from another institution must have a final transcript sent directly to theUndergraduate Admissions Office, Vanderbilt University. Upon acceptance, students will be asked to submit coursedescriptions and syllabi for all proposed transfer credit. Upon acceptance, courses will be evaluated by Vanderbilt todetermine which courses will transfer and which requirements (e.g., Liberal Education Core, professional core) aremet by the transfer courses. No course for which a student received the grade D+ or lower will transfer. Coursework transferred to Vanderbilt from another institution will not carry with it a grade point average.Page 76 of 1019 