 Petitions for exceptions to academic policies, appeals of academic policy implementations by Peabody Dean’s Officestaff, and appeals of academic actions by the Undergraduate Administrative Committee (UAC) Chair (e.g., letters ofdismissal) may be directed to the full UAC. Petitions and appeals should be sent to the Peabody Office of Academic Services- peabodyacademicservices@vanderbilt.edu, Peabody Administration Building. A student may ask the UAC to reconsider a decision if the student has new information to offer. The chair of the UACwill decide whether the full UAC will reconsider. Requests for reconsideration of UAC decisions should be sent to theabove address. A final, negative decision of the UAC may be appealed to the dean of Peabody College (at the above address), whomay assign an associate dean to handle the matter on the dean’s behalf. The dean or associate dean will consultwith the UAC and other relevant faculty or staff as part of the review of the decision. Further appeals beyond Peabody College should be directed to the Provost’s Office.Enrollment Status & ChangesTransfer Students (Blair)Alternate Track (PBDY)Leave of Absence (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Returning to the College (A&S)Withdrawal from the University (A&S, VUSE, PBDY)Change of Address (A&S, Blair, VUSE) Transfer Students (Blair)Blair: Transfer applicants must comply with university standards (see the chapter on Admissions). The requiredaudition is of major importance in the evaluation of any application. Composition applicants must submit acomposition portfolio and interview with a member of the composition faculty. Transfer students must submit catalog copy and course syllabi from the previous institution(s). A level ofperformance study is assigned based on the entrance audition. Credit for courses is subject to evaluation. Musiccourses may require an examination to verify placement and/or credit at Vanderbilt, and credit for non-musiccourses must be approved through the YES Transfer Credit portal. Transfer students must complete at least half thecredit required for the degree, or 63 hours, at the Blair School. See also, Transfer courses. Intra-university transfer. Students intending to transfer within the university should meet with the head of academicadvising and file appropriate paperwork. For students transferring out of the B.Mus. or B.Mus.Arts program, musicfees are covered through the end of the final term as a B.Mus. or B.Mus.Arts student. All students are expected tomaintain a minimum of 3 credit hours within their home school until transfer is approved. First-year students areineligible for transfer status until the end of their second semester. Students who transferred to VanderbiltUniversity from another institution are eligible for intra-university transfer after having completed one semester inresidence and having achieved sophomore standing. See also, the chapter on Admissions.Page 91 of 1019 