more than once for credit. Otherwise, students may repeat any course to replace a grade, with no additional credithours earned, subject to the following conditions:Courses taken at Vanderbilt may not be repeated elsewhere. A grade may not be replaced by a grade of“Pass.”A grade of W or I cannot replace a letter grade.Only the most recent grade is calculated in the grade point average, but all grades show on the transcript.Engineering: Courses in which a student has earned a grade lower than B– may be repeated under certainconditions. A course in which the student earned a grade between D– and C+, inclusive, may be repeated only once.A course may be repeated only on a graded basis, even if the course was originally taken Pass/Fail. Courses takenPass/Fail in which the student earned a Pass may not be repeated. A course cannot be repeated through credit byexamination. Students should note that repeating a course may improve the grade point average, but it may also lead toproblems in meeting minimum hour requirements for class standing and progress toward a degree. Repeating acourse does not increase the number of hours used in calculation of the grade point average. All grades earned willbe shown on the transcript, but only the latest grade will be used for computation of grade point averages. Peabody: If a course is repeated, only the last grade and credit hours earned will be used to calculate the gradepoint average and be creditable toward graduation. However, the original grade will appear on the transcript.Certain courses (e.g., special topics courses, directed study courses; see duplicate content section, below) may berepeated for credit when there is no duplication of content. Such courses may be repeated to replace a grade onlywhen the content of the original and repeated courses is the same. Courses must be repeated in a graded status.This policy also applies to Advanced Placement credit. Courses taken at Vanderbilt may not be repeated elsewherefor grade replacement, nor may courses taken elsewhere be repeated at Vanderbilt for grade replacement.Undergraduate Enrollment in Graduate School Courses (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: In the 4-digit course numbering system some courses may enroll undergraduate and graduatestudents simultaneously. Typically, there is a 3000- or 4000-level course for undergraduates and a matching 5000-level course for graduate students. Undergraduate students may enroll in the 3000- or 4000-level course of thesepairs without special approval. A qualified Vanderbilt University senior undergraduate may enroll in courses approved for graduate credit (thosenumbered 5000 and higher) and receive credit that, upon the student’s admission to the Vanderbilt GraduateSchool, may be applicable toward a graduate degree. Vanderbilt cannot guarantee that another graduate school willgrant credit for such courses. The principles governing this option are as follows:1. Work taken under this option is limited to those courses approved for graduate credit (those numbered 5000and higher) and listed as such in the Graduate School catalog, excluding thesis and dissertation researchcourses and similar individual research and readings courses. Courses approved for professional credit (i.e.,many courses in the Divinity School, Law School, School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and Owen GraduateSchool of Management) may not be taken as part of this option.2. The student must, at the time of registration, have a 3.00 average in all prior work to be counted toward thebachelor’s degree, or a 3.00 average in all prior work to be counted toward the undergraduate major, or a3.00 average in the preceding two semesters.3. The total course load, including both graduate and undergraduate courses, must not exceed 15 credit hours inany semester.4. No undergraduate student may enroll in more than one graduate course in any semester.5. A registration form for undergraduate Arts and Science students wishing to exercise this option is available inthe Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education. The interested student must use this form to obtain thewritten approval of the following:1. the academic adviser,2. the instructor of the course,3. and the director of graduate studies of the department or program.Engineering: A qualified Vanderbilt junior or senior may enroll in courses approved for graduate credit by thegraduate faculty. Credit from such courses may be applied to undergraduate degree requirements or, upon thestudent’s admission to the Vanderbilt University Graduate School, toward a graduate degree. Vanderbilt cannotPage 67 of 1019 