Need-Based Financial AidVanderbilt is committed to accessibility and affordability for all admitted and enrolled students. Grants, scholarships,and work opportunities are available to eligible students who apply for assistance and have demonstrated financialneed. Beginning in the fall of 2009, financial aid packages offered to incoming and current undergraduate studentsno longer included need-based loans. While continuing to meet the full demonstrated need of all eligible students,this expanded aid initiative, Opportunity Vanderbilt, announced in October 2008 provides increased amounts ofneed- based grants and/or scholarships (gift assistance) to replace need-based loans that would have otherwisebeen offered to meet a student’s demonstrated financial need. Demonstrated financial need is the difference between the cost of attending Vanderbilt and the amount thatstudents and their families are expected to contribute toward that cost. The amount of aid to fully meet eachstudent’s demonstrated financial need is determined annually on the basis of current financial informationrequired/provided on relevant application forms. Additional information is available at https://www.vanderbilt.edu/financialaid/undergraduate/index.php. University General Medals, Prizes, and AwardsAlso see the Honors chapters in the College of Arts and Science, Blair School of Music, School of Engineering, andPeabody College sections of this catalog for listings of additional awards and prizes. THE JESSICA ACESTE AND ELIZABETH BEALE RIPPLE IN THE POND AWARD was established in 2001 by Mr. and Mrs.George G. Strong through the Strong Family Foundation to reward an undergraduate student in any area of theuniversity for random acts of kindness. The award was created to express the extreme gratitude of Mr. and Mrs.Strong in recognition of the assistance and care that their daughter, Meredith, received from her friends and theVanderbilt community as she was stricken with meningococcal meningitis. Physicians credit the quick action takenby Meredith’s classmates and Vanderbilt personnel with saving her life. THE CHARLES FORREST ALEXANDER PRIZE IN JOURNALISM was endowed in 1982 by friends of Mr. Charles ForrestAlexander, B.A. 1950, who died in 1976. As a student, he was editor of the Commodore, V Book, and a staff memberof the Hustler. The fund provides support for an annual prize to be awarded to a student who has achieveddistinction in journalistic projects at Vanderbilt University. THE GREG A. ANDREWS CIVIL ENGINEERING MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1969 by James M. Andrews, Sr. tosupport a senior in civil engineering who has made the greatest progress and who plans to pursue graduate study inenvironmental and water resources engineering at the School of Engineering. Donor established the fund to honorthe memory of his son, Greg, a junior at Vanderbilt who was fatally injured in an auto accident. THE THOMAS G. ARNOLD FUND was established in 1988 by multiple donors to provide an award for the bestresearch/design project completed by a senior student in the Biomedical Engineering Department at the School ofEngineering. The fund was established by family, colleagues, and other friends of Mr. Thomas Arnold Jr., G 1956, inrecognition of his long and distinguished service to Vanderbilt from 1952 until his retirement in 1989. Mr. Arnolddied in 1989. THE DAN BARGE JR. AWARD IN CIVIL ENGINEERING was established in 2011 by multiple donors to recognize a juniorcivil engineering student who exhibits outstanding academic performance and dedication to professional orcommunity service at the School of Engineering. This fund was established to honor the legacy of Daniel B. BargeJr., B.E. 1943, who was named a Distinguished Alumnus by the School of Engineering in 1981. Dan served his schoolin numerous capacities, both formal and informal: as an advisor, an employer of graduates, a donor, volunteersolicitor, and most importantly, as a role model for students. For many years, thanks to Dan’s efforts, the school haspresented an annual American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Award, given in recent years as the ASCE/DanPage 47 of 1019 
Barge Award, to honor Dan’s professional accomplishments and contributions to ASCE that culminated in his 1987presidency. THE MORRIS H. BERNSTEIN JR. PRIZE IN LATIN DECLAMATION was endowed in 1983 by Mr. William H. Bernstein, B.A.1983, open to any undergraduate student who has completed at least two semesters of Latin at VanderbiltUniversity. Contestants shall deliver from memory selected Latin prose or poetry passages which reflect the classicalideal. The fund is named for Mr. Bernstein’s father, Dr. Morris H. Bernstein, Jr., B.A. 1943, M.D. 1946. THE BLAIR STUDENT SERVICE AWARD fund established in 2009 by an anonymous donor to provide an annual awardfor the Blair student who best exemplifies the spirit and tradition of volunteer service through music at the BlairSchool of Music. THE GLENN AND ELIZABETH BOGITSH AWARD was established in 1989 by Burton J. Bogitsh, professor of biology,and Mr. and Mrs. James T. Norris, Jr., to provide an annual award to the student at Vanderbilt University who hasbest demonstrated a strong commitment to campus recreational programs and, by example and leadership, hasinspired participation and sportsmanlike conduct in these activities. The award recognizes physical fitness,participation in recreational sports, and sportsmanship and was established to honor the memory of the Donors’son, Glenn, and daughter, Libby, both Vanderbilt graduates who died in a 1988 plane crash. The award recipient willbe given a small prize and will have his or her name engraved on a plaque, which describes the award and listsannual winners, to be mounted on a wall of the Student Recreation Center. THE CASEY CARTER BONAR LEADERSHIP AWARD was established in 2011 by multiple donors to provide awards toundergraduate students in their senior year based on leadership, broad collaboration, enthusiasm, passion forcampus involvement, selfless service to Vanderbilt, and dedication to positive change at Vanderbilt University. Thisfund was established to honor the memory of Casey Carter Bonar, B.A. 1985, a dedicated and selfless leader whoinspired excellence and propelled others to join in her commitment to serve. Casey’s vitality, warmth, compassion,and boundless enthusiasm served to energize and enhance each of the many campus activities in which she wasinvolved, including student government, student media, Greek life, and Impact. Her passion for facilitatingfriendship and camaraderie for higher purpose, for promoting service to all and helping expand the horizons of the“underdog,” earned her the lifelong gratitude and admiration of her Vanderbilt community. An active member of theAlumni Association Board, she often interviewed prospective students and organized alumni activities. Casey wasproud of her Vanderbilt education. She exemplified Cornelius Vanderbilt’s vision of strengthening the ties that bindas she consistently reached out to make someone’s life better. THE MARGARET BRANSCOMB PRIZE was established in 1993 to support an undergraduate prize at the Blair Schoolof Music. The wife of Vanderbilt’s fourth Chancellor, Harvie Branscomb (1946–1963), Mrs. Branscomb served aspresident of the Vanderbilt Garden Club from 1952 to 1954. Historically, the prize is given annually to a Blairfreshman judged by the faculty to have the musical and personal qualities that best exemplify the spirit andstandards of the school. THE SUE BREWER FUND SCHOLARSHIP was established in 1987 by the Songwriters Guild Foundation to providesupport to either composition or guitar majors at the Blair School of Music. To qualify, an entering freshman must beranked in the upper 25th percentile of his or her class, and an upperclassman must have maintained at least a 3.0GPA in the performance area, a 2.5 GPA in music, and a 2.0 overall GPA. This fund was established in memory ofSue Brewer, who befriended many of Nashville’s struggling songwriters in the late 1960s and early 1970s. THE FRANKLIN BROOKS MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1995 by multiple donors to defray travel costs forstudents studying in France through the Vanderbilt in France program at the College of Arts and Science. This fundwas established in memory of H. Franklin Brooks, former associate professor of French and three-time director of theVanderbilt in France program during his 25-year teaching career at Vanderbilt. Page 48 of 1019 
THE LARRY ROSS CATHEY MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1974 by Arnold M. Heiser to support an award thatwill recognize the most outstanding student majoring in astronomy in the Astronomy Department at the College ofArts and Science. This award was established in 1974 in memory of Larry Ross Cathey, who graduated in 1966 withhonors in physics and astronomy. THE NORA C. CHAFFIN SCHOLARSHIP was established 1956 by the Women’s Council of the Women’s StudentGovernment Association to provide scholarship support for deserving undergraduate students at VanderbiltUniversity. This fund was established in honor of Nora C. Chaffin, former Dean of Women known for her service andloyalty to Vanderbilt University and its women students. The scholarship is awarded to a junior student who hasdisplayed service to the University in the area of student government, religious, literary and scholastic activities,and in the arts. THE CLASSICS DEPARTMENT STUDENT TRAVEL FUND FOR ROME, ITALY was established in 2006 by Richard H.Davis, B.E. 1969, and Barbara C. Davis, B.S.N. 1969, to support undergraduate student travel expenses in Rome,Italy, through the Classics Department at the College of Arts and Science. THE PAUL CONKIN FUND was established in 1999 by an anonymous donor to establish a prize for the bestundergraduate term paper written on American History in the History Department at the College of Arts andScience. Paul Conkin, Distinguished Professor of History Emeritus at Vanderbilt University, is the author of the historyof Vanderbilt University, Gone with the Ivy, and the Peabody College History which was published in 2002. THE COOLEY MEDAL was established in 1920 to provide recognition for students who excel in fine arts at theCollege of Arts and Science. The medal is named after Comrade Theodore Cooley, known as one of the most public-spirited citizens of Nashville. Cooley was a successful Nashville businessman and supporter of the TennesseeCentennial and International Exposition held in Nashville in 1897 at the current location of Centennial Park on WestEnd Avenue. THE WALTER CRILEY PRIZE PAPER AWARD was established in 1978 by Robert Derrick, B.E. 1954, and the Simons-Eastern Company to be given for the best paper on an advanced senior project in electrical engineering at theSchool of Engineering at Vanderbilt University. This award was created in honor of Walter Criley, professor emeritusof electrical engineering, who taught from 1947 until his retirement in 1965. Professor Criley helped organize boththe student chapter and the Nashville section of the Institute of Electrical Engineers, and also served assoutheastern regional vice-president of the National Institute of Electrical Engineers. He passed away in 1977. THE DONALD DAVIE MEMORIAL POETRY PRIZE was established in 2005 by multiple donors to support an annualprize to be awarded each spring to the best poem submitted by a current graduate student in the Department ofEnglish at the College of Arts and Science. This fund was created in memory of poet and Vanderbilt Universityprofessor Donald Davie. THE EDWARD PRENTICE DAVIS MEMORIAL PRIZE was established in 1997 by classmates of Mr. Edward ‘Ward’Prentice Davis, B.A. 1987, to provide support for an annual prize awarded to a deserving NROTC college programmidshipman. Ward was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps and servedhonorably for three years as an artillery officer. To his Marine Corps peers, Ward was an inspiration because hepursued his commission as a college program midshipman, without any scholarship. Ward passed away in 1995.This fund was established to honor Ward’s commitment and perseverance. THE ALLAN P. DELOACH MEMORIAL PRIZE IN PHOTOGRAPHY was established in 1998 by Mr. Rusty Edmister and Mrs.Pat Adams to support a prize in photography in the Fine Arts Department at the College of Arts and Science. Thisfund was established in memory of Mr. Edmister’s and Mrs. Adam’s former co-worker at IBM and VanderbiltUniversity alumnus, Allan P. DeLoach, B.A. 1963. The award is open to any student who has taken a studio class ofany discipline. Students will submit one to three photographs to be judged by a professional photographer, outsidePage 49 of 1019 
of the Vanderbilt community, who will pick the winner and give a slide lecture to students on his/her work. THE ROBERT V. DILTS AWARD was established in 1994 by multiple donors to provide an award to a deservingundergraduate chemistry student in the Department of Chemistry at the College of Arts and Science. This award wasestablished to honor Professor Robert V. Dilts, who served on the chemistry faculty from 1960 to 1994. THE ARTHUR J. DYER JR. MEMORIAL PRIZE was established in 1938 by Arthur J. Dyer, Sr. to award a medal to theCivil Engineering student in his/her senior year who shows the greatest proficiency in the study and/or design in theuse of structural steel at the School of Engineering, and who is a student member of the American Society of CivilEngineers. This fund was established in memory of a former Vanderbilt student, Arthur James Dyer, Jr., who wasinjured while prosecuting engineering duties on a bridge at Panama City, Florida, and died September 2, 1928. THE DAVID ELIA AWARD was established in 2002 by Mrs. Jean M. Elia to provide a $300 annual award to a varsitywomen’s soccer player in the Department of Athletics. Players will vote on who they consider to be the hardestworking player. This fund was established in memory of Mr. David Elia, a parent of a Vanderbilt soccer player. THE T. ALDRICH FINEGAN AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN UNDERGRADUATE ECONOMIC RESEARCH was established in2005 by T. Aldrich Finegan, Professor Emeritus, to recognize excellence in undergraduate research conducted by asenior graduating from the economics honors program. The award should be given for an outstanding thesis writtenby a student in the Department of Economics Honors Program at the College of Arts and Science. THE EDWIN S. GARDNER MEMORIAL PRIZE FOR EXCELLENCE IN FRENCH was established in 1980 by Grace D.Gardner, B.A. 1932, to be used, at the discretion of the Department of French at the College of Arts and Science, inone of two ways: 1) to fund an annual award to a graduating senior excelling in French studies, or 2) to purchasebooks for the French collection in Jean and Alexander Heard Library. Donor made this gift in honor of her latehusband, Edwin S. Gardner, B.A. 1927, who served as treasurer of Vanderbilt from 1953 to 1971. THE GENERAL MOTORS POLITICAL SCIENCE FUND was established to support undergraduate prizes for politicalscience students at the College of Arts and Science. THE GEYER AWARD was established in 1979 by Mr. Richard A. Geyer Jr. to support a competitive journalism awarddesigned to give recognition to campus reporters “who consistently write articles resulting from thorough research”and whose articles are, at the same time, “lively, informative, and logical” in any area of Vanderbilt University. THE GUY GOFFE MEANS AWARD was established in 1975 through the bequest of Marie Hochle Means to provide anaward to a student with ability in creative writing in the Department of English at the College of Arts and Science. THE NORMAN L. AND ROSELEA J. GOLDBERG PRIZE was established in 1988 by Roselea J. Goldberg to support anannual award for the best manuscript submitted each year to Vanderbilt University, preferably in the area of art andmedicine. The manuscript will be judged by a committee from Vanderbilt University Press. THE JOHN P. GREER AWARD was established in 2006 by Professor John and Mrs. Shirley Lachs to provide an awardto graduating seniors majoring in philosophy and going to medical school. Donors established this award in honor ofDr. John P. Greer, Professor of Medicine in Vanderbilt’s Department of Hematology, to commend his career path andin gratitude of the care given by Dr. Greer to Mrs. Lachs. Page 50 of 1019 
THE LARRY C. HALL STUDENT TRAVEL FUND was established in 1995 by multiple donors to support a studenttraveling to the Pittcon Conference, a chemistry related conference, through the College of Arts and Science. Thefund was established in honor of Dr. Larry Hall at the time of his retirement. THE MARGARET STONEWALL WOOLDRIDGE HAMBLET AWARD was established in 1985 by Clement H. Hamblet andMargaret Hamblet Sarner at the College of Arts and Science. The fellowship was established in memory of MargaretHamblet’s love of art and travels to Europe to study art. Margaret Hamblet was a graduate of Peabody College in theClass of 1926. Clement and Margaret Hamblet met in Paris where Margaret was an art student. The fellowship isawarded to a deserving senior with outstanding merit in art and completion of three or more studio art courses andprovides one year of travel and furtherance of creative endeavor following graduation from the College of Arts andScience. The second priority for the fund is to provide a continued small subsidy for a second graduating senior. THE ANDREW SANG HAN MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 2017 to support an award for a woodwind or brassstudent at the Blair School of Music who demonstrates remarkable musicianship and leadership in all areas ofensemble playing. The award honors Sang Han, a clarinet performance major at the Blair School of Music from2012–2015. Sang’s dedication to excellence in all areas of performance, as well as the care and consideration heshowed his peers, served as an example to his friends and colleagues at Blair. THE JEAN AND ALEXANDER HEARD AWARD was established in 2013 by the children of Jean and Alexander Heard toprovide need-based financial assistance to deserving undergraduate students who have been accepted to one of thesummer music festivals through a summer study program at the Blair School of Music. This fund was established inmemory of Jean and Alexander Heard. Chancellor Alexander Heard served as Vanderbilt University’s fifth Chancellorfrom 1963 to 1982 and oversaw many changes in the campus. Under his tenure, Peabody College, Blair School ofMusic, and the Owen Graduate School of Management became part of the University. THE JEAN KELLER HEARD PRIZE was established in 1985 by the Vanderbilt Woman’s Club to provide an award forexcellence in music performance to a string student seeking a Bachelor of Music degree at the Blair School of Music.This fund was established to honor violinist Jean Keller Heard, the wife of Vanderbilt’s former Chancellor AlexanderHeard. Mrs. Heard passed away in 2011. THE FRANK HOUSTON AWARD FOR ORATORY was established in 1974 by Mr. Frank K. Houston, B.A. 1904, andformer member of the Vanderbilt Board of Trust, to support an annual prize given to a student who excels in apresentation in public speaking in any department at Vanderbilt University. Mr. Houston grew up in Murfreesboro,Tennessee, and took public speaking while he was a student at Vanderbilt. He established this competition toencourage competent public speaking, as he believed that his experience at Vanderbilt had made a very realdifference in his own life. THE MELVIN D. JOESTEN SCIENCE VOLUNTEER AWARD FUND was established in 1998 by multiple donors to providean award for outstanding science student volunteers in the Chemistry Department at the College of Arts andScience. This endowed fund was established in the name of Melvin “Mel” D. Joesten in recognition of his many yearsof service to the department and to Vanderbilt University. THE MARK M. JONES UNDERGRADUATE AWARD IN INORGANIC CHEMISTRY was established in 1998 by colleaguesand other friends of Professor Jones to recognize undergraduates who have excelled in inorganic chemistry at theCollege of Arts and Science. Preference will be given to students showing excellence in undergraduate research. Dr.Jones taught chemistry from 1957 until his retirement in 1998 and chaired the chemistry department from 1970 until1976. THE MICHAEL B. KEEGAN TRAVELING FELLOWSHIP was established in 2004 by Michael B. Keegan and others toprovide one or more graduating undergraduate student(s) with an opportunity to study and travel abroad in pursuitof an issue or topic of personal and intellectual passion. The Fellowship will provide a minimum of one annual award,Page 51 of 1019 
each in the amount of not less than $10,000 to help pay for travel expenses for the recipient(s), allowing therecipient(s) to study and possibly work outside the United States of America for approximately one year. The fundwas established as an international fellowship to foster in the student(s) a sense of his/her potential as a citizen ofthe world, and as a traveling fellowship to create a deep cross-cultural experience. THE W. G. KIRKPATRICK ENGINEERING PRIZE was established in 1926 through a bequest from Walter Gill Kirkpatrick,B.E. 1887, B.S. andM.S. 1889, to provide support for an annual prize for the most deserving third-year student in the Department ofCivil Engineering at the School of Engineering. THE MAGDA LACHS AWARD was established in 2008 by Brenda Higgins, a former employee in Development andAlumni Relations for the Blair School of Music, to support a voice or orchestra student at Blair who participates inthe opera presentation in the school year in which it was given. The fund was established in honor of Magda Lachs'100th birthday. THE C. MAXWELL LANCASTER AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN ITALIAN was established in 1990 by Professor LuigiMonga to honor the memory of C. Maxwell Lancaster, professor of French and Italian at Vanderbilt University from1939 until his retirement in 1976, and to promote the study of the Italian language and literature at VanderbiltUniversity. The annual prize will consist of a medal which will be awarded to a fourth- semester student forexcellence in Italian, at the recommendation of the faculty of the Department of French and Italian. THE R. J. LARSEN PRIZE FOR EXCELLENCE IN MATHEMATICS was established in 2005 by multiple donors to providean award to a graduating senior for excellence in mathematics at the College of Arts and Science. This fund wasestablished in honor of Professor Richard Larsen to celebrate his retirement. Professor Larsen worked in theDepartment of Mathematics at the College of Arts and Science for over thirty years. THE JOEL CARL LICHTER MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1996 by Professor and Mrs. Barry D. Lichter toprovide an award that will be presented each year at the Magnolia Awards ceremony to a graduating senior whocontributes by example to the promotion of outdoor education, combining academic excellence and expertise inwilderness skills along with friendship and service to others in any area of Vanderbilt University. Professor and Mrs.Lichter established the award to honor the life of their son Joel Lichter, an avid outdoorsman who graduated fromVanderbilt University magna cum laude in 1981 with honors in chemical engineering. Joel Lichter died in a 1992accident in Alaska while commercial fishing. THE LEE J. LOVENTHAL PRIZE was established in 1937 by Mr. Lee Jefferson Loventhal, class of 1896 and member ofthe Vanderbilt University Board of Trust from 1919 to 1940, to establish a prize in the Department of CommunicationStudies. THE S. S. AND I. M. F. MARSDEN AWARD IN MUSICAL SCHOLARSHIP was established in 1998 by Dr. Sullivan F.Marsden for a written paper on a topic that might lie outside the normal core of scholarship at the Blair School ofMusic. The award will be an annual $1,000 prize to encourage and recognize excellence in scholarship. THE THOMAS W. MARTIN MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1992 by multiple donors to support an awardrecognizing an outstanding undergraduate physical chemistry student at the College of Arts and Science. This fundwas established in memory of Thomas W. Martin Jr., chair of the Department of Chemistry from 1967 to 1970. THE CARL MASON AWARD was established in 1986 to provide assistance to incoming graduate students in the areaof environmental engineering in the School of Engineering.Page 52 of 1019 
 THE DELENE LAUBENHEIM MCCLURE MEMORIAL PRIZE IN OPERA was established in 1997 by multiple donors toprovide support for voice majors who exhibit excellence in opera at the Blair School of Music. This scholarship wasestablished to honor the memory of Delene Laubenheim McClure, BMUS, 1991. While at Vanderbilt, Mrs. McClurewas a member of the Blair Opera Workshop. She debuted at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C., in 1994 as afinalist in the National Symphony Orchestra's Young Soloists competition and won the competition in 1995. Mrs.McClure passed away in 1997. THE JOHN T. AND LIZZE ALLEN MCGILL AWARD was established in 1960 by Lizzie Allen McGill to provide an award toone or more residents of McGill Hall who have the best developed qualities of leadership and scholarship. This fundwas established in memory of Mrs. McGill’s husband who passed away in 1946, and who spent his life in service toVanderbilt as a student in the class of 1879, professor emeritus of chemistry, Dean of the School of Pharmacy, andhistorian of the university. Preference in awarding is for a freshman with financial need. THE SAMUEL T. MCSEVENEY AWARD was established in 2001 by Professor Samuel T. McSeveney to recognize anundergraduate student with the best paper written in a freshman seminar in the Department of History. THE MERRILL MOORE AWARD was established in 1961 by Mrs. Merrill Moore, Vanderbilt alumna and widow of thelate Merrill Moore, M.D. 1928, to provide a cash award to a student graduating from Vanderbilt University or a junioror senior student on the basis of the student’s literary promise and the psychological or practical usefulness ofaward to him/her at the College of Arts and Science. Dr. Moore was an internationally known Boston psychiatrist anda poet. THE HENRIETTA HICKMAN MORGAN PRIZE was established in 1946 by William B. Morgan II to provide awards tofreshmen students with the best pieces of original writing at the College of Arts and Science. This fund wasestablished in memory of the donor’s wife, Henrietta Hickman Morgan. Mrs. Morgan received her B.A. in 1938 fromVanderbilt University and was a member of the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority, and Phi Beta Kappa Phi Sigma Iota, anhonorary romance language group. She served as flag secretary and aide to Rear Admiral Martin K. Metcalf for morethan two years before falling ill in 1945. THE NED PARKER NABERS AWARD was established in 1984 by multiple donors to provide an annual prize for thebest essay or research paper by an undergraduate student in the fields of classical archaeology or ancient art orarchitecture. The fund was established in memory of Ned Parker Nabers who served on faculty from 1966 until hisdeath in 1984. THE DANA W. NANCE PRIZE was established in 1985 by Professor Francis C. Nance, B.A. 1953, and family to providean annual award to a student at the College of Arts and Science. The award will recognize an outstanding studentfrom the pre-medical curriculum who has demonstrated perseverance in overcoming academic, financial, or socialobstacles to succeed, who is well-trained in the technical skills acquired through the undergraduate pre-medicalcurriculum, and who possesses an abiding sense of ethical and moral concern for the patient. The fund wasestablished to honor Dana W. Nance, B.A. 1925, M.D. 1929, who served for many years as the area chairman of theVanderbilt Alumni Fund. THE ELLIOTT AND AILSA NEWMAN CLARINET AWARD was established in 1999 through the bequest of Ailsa MacKayNewman along with additional memorial gifts to provide an award to a deserving clarinet student at the Blair Schoolof Music. Preference when awarding is given to a clarinet major who shows strong musical promise. If a clarinetmajor is not available, the award should be given to a woodwind student. This fund is named for Mrs. Newman andher husband, who predeceased her. THE L. HOWARD NICAR MEMORIAL FUND was established in 1997 by multiple donors to award a prize or scholarshipPage 53 of 1019 
to a collegiate student at the Blair School of Music. This fund was established in memory of L. Howard Nicar, formerAssistant Dean of Admissions at the Blair School of Music. THE DONALD E. PEARSON AWARD was established in 1980 by the Chemistry Department and endowed in 2008 byDr. and Mrs. Frank Pinkerton to provide support for an annual award to an outstanding chemistry major who hasdone undergraduate research in chemistry. Professor Donald E. Pearson served as faculty in the Department ofChemistry at the College of Arts and Science until his retirement in 1986. THE PHI BETA KAPPA CENTENNIAL AWARD was established in 1998 by the Phi Beta Kappa Council to providesupport for an annual award at the College of Arts and Science. This fund, established in celebration of the Alpha ofTennessee chapter’s centennial in 2001, will be presented to a Vanderbilt senior who has been elected to Phi BetaKappa in their junior year and who has demonstrated excellence in several different fields of academic endeavor,and has applied his or her intellectual talents in extracurricular activities within the university or community thatexemplify a dedication to improve the human condition. THE EMILY ANN BENNETT PLANT AWARD IN ANTHROPOLOGY was established in 1995 by Emily Ann Bennett Plant,B.A. 1994, to provide financial support based on merit and need to recognize excellence in the study ofanthropology at the College of Arts and Science. The award may be applied to the cost of tuition and living expensesor to fund supplemental educational activities that will enrich the study of anthropology, such as summer researchor participation in a field school. THE ROBERT PETER PRATT MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1991 by multiple donors to honor Robert PeterPratt (1954–1991), former associate director of Undergraduate Admissions and longtime leader in promotingdiversity within the student population. The award is presented annually to the Chancellor’s Scholar whoseaccomplishments best exemplify Peter Pratt’s commitment to diversity and unity, leadership and cooperation,warmth and openness, and unselfish service to others. The award recognizes a Chancellor’s Scholar of junior orsenior standing whose campus leadership and service promote diversity and enhance understanding among thevarious groups that comprise the university community. Academic performance is also considered in selecting theaward recipient. THE DAVID RABIN PRIZE was established in 1985 by multiple donors to provide an annual prize to a student chosenon the basis of music ability and talent at the Blair School of Music. This prize was established in memory of Dr.David Rabin, former professor of medicine in obstetrics and gynecology at the School of Medicine. Dr. Rabin passedaway in 1984. THE JERRY REVES STUDENT ATHLETE GPA AWARD was established through funds from the terminated trust of Dr.Joseph Gerald Reves, Jr., B.A. 1965, to annually fund a plaque for the student-athlete with the highest GPA. THE JIM ROBINS AWARD was established in 1969 by Michael G. Wagner, B.A. 1957, to honor the memory of James A.Robins, class of 1892, whose life and teaching exemplified selfless devotion to learning, to honor, to participation insports and to service to youth and Vanderbilt. The prize is awarded to a member of the football team voted as themost outstanding representative of the group. THE JOE L. ROBY NROTC ESPRIT DE CORPS AWARD was established in 2006 by Mr. Duff Anderson and Mr. W. PatrickMcMullan III, B.A. 1974, to recognize and reward Vanderbilt NROTC Midshipmen who display outstanding enthusiasmand esprit de corp as members of the battalion through involvement in NROTC and university activities and provideinspiration to fellow midshipmen and students at Vanderbilt University. The award was created in honor of Joe L.Roby, B.A. 1961, Vanderbilt trustee emeritus, and a former Battalion Commanding Officer of the Vanderbilt NROTCMidshipmen Battalion in recognition of his inspiring leadership at Vanderbilt University and with the Vanderbilt NavalROTC program and his subsequent service in the United States Navy.Page 54 of 1019 
 THE KATHRYN SEDBERRY POETRY PRIZE was established in 2003 through the estate of Kathryn Sedberry, M.A. 1963,to provide support for an annual poetry prize in the Department of English at the College of Arts and Science. THE JAMES G. STAHLMAN NROTC AWARD was established in 1972 by former Vanderbilt Trustee, James GeddesStahlman, B.A. 1919, to provide an award to the top Navy ROTC member and the top Marine ROTC member from thesenior class who have proven themselves to be the most outstanding in citizenship, scholarship, and leadership inthe Naval ROTC unit. The award recipients will be chosen by their Commanding Officer. THE DAVID STEINE ECONOMICS AND BUSINESS AWARD was established in 2006 by James B. Johnson Jr., B.A. 1954,to recognize undergraduates in the Hoogland Undergraduate Business Program who show exceptional promise for acareer in business. The fund may be awarded to any graduating student from any of Vanderbilt’s fourundergraduate schools who will graduate with a business minor. The award was established to honor the memoryand distinguished career of David Steine, a professor held in the highest esteem by the donor. THE STEIN STONE MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1948 by Mrs. James N. Stone to provide an award tostudents in the School of Engineering. This fund is to be awarded to a graduating senior who has lettered in a sport,preferably football, and who is judged to have made the most satisfactory scholastic and extramural progress as anundergraduate. This fund was established in memory of Mrs. Stone’s late husband, James “Stein” Stone, student atthe School of Engineering in 1908 and an “All Southern” center on the Vanderbilt University football team from 1904to 1907. THE HENRY LEE SWINT AWARD was established in 1976 by Frank A. Woods, B.A. 1963, LL.B. 1966, for anundergraduate history major with the best history essay or research paper in the Department of History at theCollege of Arts and Science. The fund was established in honor of Henry Lee Swint, a former Holland N. McTyeireProfessor of History who served on the faculty from 1939 until his retirement in 1977. THE ROBERT D. TANNER UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH AWARD was established in 2005 by multiple donors toprovide an award to an undergraduate student conducting research in the Department of Chemical Engineering atthe School of Engineering. This award was established in honor of Dr. Robert D. Tanner, emeritus faculty, at thetime of his retirement. Dr. Tanner was a professor of chemical engineering at Vanderbilt University. THE JOEL TELLINGHUISEN PHI BETA KAPPA AWARD was established in 2006 by James B. Johnson, Jr., B.A. 1954, torecognize undergraduate students who have been initiated into Phi Beta Kappa and have shown exceptional abilityat the College of Arts and Science. The award honors Joel Tellinghuisen, professor of chemistry, for his positiveimpact and influence in educating undergraduate students at Vanderbilt, including Mr. Johnson’s daughter,Katherine Johnson, B.S. 1994, M.Ed. 1995. The annual awards will be made to graduating seniors who are membersof Phi Beta Kappa, in recognition of outstanding performance in research as an undergraduate at Vanderbilt. THE UNDERWOOD MEMORIAL AWARD was established in 1961 by Newton Underwood to support a senior in theDepartment of Physics or Department of Biology selected alternately by the head of the physics department and thehead of the biology department to be awarded each year at commencement. The award honors his father, JudgeEmory Marvin Underwood, B.A. 1900, LL.B. 1902, and a member of the Vanderbilt Board of Trust from 1922 until hisdeath in 1960, who devoted his life to justice and to bringing out the best in people. THE JACQUELINE AND MORRIS WACHS ESSAY PRIZE was established in 1999 by multiple donors to support a prize inthe Department of French and Italian at the College of Arts and Science. This fund was established in memory ofJacqueline Wachs, former French professor from 1966 until her retirement in 1994, and Morris Wachs, emeritusprofessor of French at Vanderbilt. Mrs. Wachs died in 1999 and Mr. Wachs died in 2001.Page 55 of 1019 