see the “Student Records (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act” section of this catalog. The UniversityCommodore Cornelius Vanderbilt, who gave a million dollars to build and endow Vanderbilt University in 1873,expressed the wish that it “contribute . . . to strengthening the ties which should exist between all geographicalsections of our common country.”A little more than a hundred years later, the Vanderbilt Board of Trust adopted the following mission statement:“We reaffirm our belief in the unique and special contributions that Vanderbilt can make toward meeting thenation’s requirements for scholarly teaching, training, investigation, and service, and we reaffirm our convictionthat to fulfill its inherited responsibilities, Vanderbilt must relentlessly pursue a lasting future and seek highestquality in its educational undertakings.”Today as Vanderbilt pursues its mission, the university more than fulfills the Commodore’s hope. It is one of a fewindependent universities with both a quality undergraduate program and a full range of graduate andprofessional programs. It has a strong faculty of more than 4,200 full-time members and a diverse student bodyof more than 12,800.The 334-acre campus is about one and one-half miles from the downtown business district of the city of Nashville,combining the advantages of an urban location with a peaceful, parklike setting of broad lawns, shaded paths,and quiet plazas.The schools of the university offer the following degrees:College of Arts and Science. Bachelor of Arts.Blair School of Music. Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Musical Arts.Divinity School. Master of Divinity, Master of Theological Studies, Master of Theology, Doctor of Ministry.School of Engineering. Bachelor of Engineering, Bachelor of Science, Master of Engineering.Graduate School. Master of Arts, Master of Fine Arts, Master of Liberal Arts and Science, Master of Science,Doctor of Philosophy.Law School. Master of Laws, Master of Legal Studies, Doctor of Jurisprudence.School of Medicine. Master of Education of the Deaf, Master of Genetic Counseling, Master of Imaging Science,Master of Public Health, Master of Science in Clinical Investigation, Master of Science in Medical Physics, Masterof Science (Applied Clinical Informatics, Speech-Language Pathology), Doctor of Audiology, Doctor of MedicalPhysics, Doctor of Medicine.School of Nursing. Master of Nursing, Master of Science in Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice.Owen Graduate School of Management. Master of Accountancy, Master of Business Administration, Masterof Management in Health Care, Master of Marketing, Master of Science in Finance.Peabody College. Bachelor of Science, Master of Education, Master of Public Policy, Doctor of Education.No honorary degrees are conferred.Vanderbilt University AdministrationDANIEL DIERMEIER, Ph.D., ChancellorC. CYBELE RAVER, Ph.D., Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic AffairsSTEVEN K. ERTEL, B.A., Vice Chancellor for Communications and MarketingNATHAN GREEN, B.B.A., Vice Chancellor for Government and Community RelationsANDERS W. HALL, M.B.A., Vice Chancellor for Investments and Chief Investment OfficerERIC C. KOPSTAIN, M.B.A., Vice Chancellor for AdministrationCANDICE S. LEE, Ed.D., Vice Chancellor for Athletics and University Affairs and Athletic DirectorPage 483 of 1019 