Liberal Arts requirements. Academic background, career goals, and general talents and interests will affect choice ofcourses. Upon graduation, students in the College of Arts and Science will receive a bachelor of arts degree upon completionof the other four requirements in addition to AXLE: fulfillment of requirements for one major, a 2.000 average in themajor, 120 cumulative earned credit hours, and a 2.000 average overall. Where to Get InformationIn addition to this catalog’s sections on the rules, regulations, and policies of the College of Arts and Science as wellas descriptions of the academic programs of all the undergraduate schools, students may refer to the booklet,Understanding Your Core Curriculum & Pre-major Advising, a College of Arts and Science manual for enteringstudents. Where to Get AdviceEntering students are assigned pre-major advisers from CASPAR (College of Arts and Science Pre-major AcademicAdvising Resources Center). Pre-major advisers are carefully selected and receive intensive training on how to helpstudents proceed effectively through the requirements of AXLE and chart a course of study. These advisers willcounsel students through their first three and one-half semesters or until they declare a major. At that time,students are assigned faculty advisers in their major departments. Students are encouraged to see their advisers atany time; they must, however, consult their pre-major adviser three times during the first year: during summerbefore the fall semester, prior to the opening of enrollment windows for the spring semester, and prior to theopening of enrollment windows for the fall semester of their second year. Prior to their first semester, entering first-year students must consult in June with their pre-major adviser who will assist with course selections for registrationfor the fall and begin to understand each student’s interests and goals. (This initial contact is typically via phoneand/or email.) What Is AXLE?AXLE is the acronym for Achieving eXcellence in Liberal Education. It is the core curriculum that all students in theCollege of Arts and Science must fulfill. The AXLE curriculum is flexible and very user-friendly. It consists of twoparts: the Writing Requirement and the Liberal Arts Requirement.The Writing Requirement has four segments: completion of English 1100 or demonstration of basic skills in Englishcomposition; completion of a First-Year Writing Seminar; completion of a writing course (indicated by a “W”) no laterthan the fourth semester in residence; and completion of a second writing course (indicated by a “W”) or anapproved course in oral communication (CMST 2100, 2110, or 2120).The Liberal Arts Requirement is composed of a total of thirteen courses taken at Vanderbilt, and distributed acrosssix categories. The First-Year Writing Seminar and all writing courses, and approved Oral Communication coursesare also counted in the thirteen-course Liberal Arts Requirement.1. The Writing Requirement (three to four courses)a. English Composition ENGL 1100 (appropriate test score or one course)b. First-Year Writing Seminar (one course)c. a W course before the end of the fourth semester (one course)d. a second W course or approved Oral Communication course (one course)2. The Liberal Arts Requirement (13 courses)a. HCA — Humanities and the Creative Arts (three courses)b. INT — International Cultures (three courses)c. US — History and Culture of the United States (one course)d. MNS — Mathematics and Natural Sciences (three courses)e. SBS — Social and Behavioral Sciences (two courses)f. P — Perspectives (one course)All students must also complete requirements for at least one major (between 27 and 48 credit hours of coursePage 105 of 1019 