Engineering: A student at Vanderbilt or one who has been admitted to Vanderbilt may, with the approval of his orher academic dean, take an official leave of absence for as much as two semesters and a summer session. Leave ofabsence forms are available in the Office of Academic Services. A student who fails to register in the university atthe end of the leave will be withdrawn from the university. Peabody: A student desiring a leave of absence should obtain the appropriate forms from the Peabody Office ofAcademic Services website: peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php. All students are eligible,provided they have not been dropped by the university and are not dropped at the end of the semester during whichapplication is made. Leaves are granted for one or two semesters. Applications should be completed before the end of the fall semesterfor a leave of absence during the spring semester and before 15 August for a leave of absence during the fallsemester (or for the academic year). If the leave is approved, the student must keep the Dean’s Office informed ofany change of address while on leave. Should a student seek to transfer to Vanderbilt credit earned elsewhere while on a leave of absence, it is mandatorythat permission be obtained in advance from the Dean’s Office. Petitions for leaves of this type must be filed atleast one month before the close of the preceding semester. While the student is on leave, registration information will be emailed to his or her Vanderbilt email address. Astudent failing to register at the conclusion of the stated leave will be withdrawn from the university and must applyfor readmission. Students who wish to participate in a non-Vanderbilt program in the United States, abroad, or at sea should applyfor a leave of absence for the relevant semester. To qualify for such a leave, a student must be in good standing atVanderbilt with at least a 2.700 grade point average as of the date of application. Students must obtain priorapproval for the leave of absence and for the credits to be taken in other programs if the credits are to betransferred to Vanderbilt. Final approval of leaves of absence always rests with the Dean’s Office. See the section onTransfer Credit in this chapter.Returning to the College (A&S)Arts & Science: Students on leave of absence return to the university at the end of the leave. If they do not returnat that time and want to return later, they must apply to the Office of the University Registrar for reinstatement.Students who are advised to withdraw from the university determine whether or not to return in consultation withthe Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education. Students who have been dropped may apply to the Office of theUniversity Registrar for reinstatement; in most cases reinstatement is not granted unless there has been anintervening period of at least a year. The Office of the University Registrar forwards all documents to theAdministrative Committee, which considers each case on an individual basis. Reinstatement is competitive, andthere is no assurance that it will be granted. Students reinstated after having been advised to withdraw or after having been dropped are automatically on finalprobation. If they fail to regain good standing and to maintain it until graduation, they are dropped again with littleprospect for reinstatement. Application deadlines for reinstatement are as follows: July 15 for the fall semester,November 15 for the spring semester, and April 1 for the summer session.Withdrawal from the University (A&S, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Sciences: Students proposing to withdraw from the university during a regular term must report to theDean’s Office of Undergraduate Education in the College of Arts and Science to initiate proper clearance procedures.If withdrawal from the university is officially authorized, the student will receive withdrawal grades on the samebasis as a student withdrawing from a particular course or courses. (See the section on Period for Withdrawal underRegistration above).Page 93 of 1019 