Note that neither courses taken for transfer credit (grade of “T”) nor courses that are only offered on a pass/failbasis by the university (e.g., certain field experience courses) are counted against the number of courses that astudent may voluntarily elect to take on a pass/fail basis, either within or across semesters. The P/F option does not apply to courses in the following categories:1. Liberal Education Core Courses that have been specifically identified by the student’s primary major asneeding to be taken on a graded basis. 2. For students with a single or double major, courses in the department(s) of the major(s) or other courses thatmay be counted for the major(s);3. For students with an interdisciplinary major, courses listed in the student’s plan of study;4. For students planning an optional minor, courses in the department of the minor or those counting toward aninterdisciplinary minor.Students taking a course on a P/F basis must be enrolled for at least 12 additional hours on a regularly graded basis.If a student drops a course and falls below 12 graded hours, the P/F course is converted automatically to a regularlygraded basis. Seniors who meet the above criteria and have permission to take fewer than 12 hours on a graded basis may takeone course on a P/F basis in one of their last two semesters (e.g., a semester in which an internship or studentteaching is not being taken). If the student does not graduate at the end of the senior year, the grade of P isautomatically converted to the grade actually earned. When a student wishes to complete a major or minor in a fieldin which a grade of P has been received, the registrar converts this grade to the regular grade originally earned. All P/F students are expected to meet normal course requirements (e.g., reports, papers, examinations, laboratoryattendance) and are graded in a normal way. At the end of the semester, students enrolled on a P/F basis areawarded a regular grade. Any grade of D- or better is converted in the Student Records System to a P, while an Fgrade remains as awarded. A student taking a course on a P/F basis must meet the course prerequisites as set forthin this catalog. Students may submit a Pass/Fail request form on or before the Pass/Fail declaration deadline. Students may changefrom a P/F basis to a regularly graded basis until the last day to withdraw from classes in a given term. All Pass/Faildeadlines are published in the Academic Calendar. The Pass/Fail form is availableonline: peabody.vanderbilt.edu/admin-offices/oas/downloads.php.Withdrawal (A&S, Blair, VUSE, PBDY)Arts & Science: After the Change Period, and extending to the deadline published on the Undergraduate AcademicCalendar, a student may withdraw from a course with approval from the student’s adviser. Under certain conditions,withdrawal may also require approval from an associate dean in 350 Buttrick Hall. During the same period studentsmay change their status from P/F to regularly graded or elect Pass/Fail status in a course. These changes must be made with a Change of Course form, which is available online and which the student mustsubmit to the Dean’s Office of Undergraduate Education in Arts and Science. After the deadline, withdrawal ispossible only in the most extraordinary circumstances, such as illness or unusual personal or family problems, and inall cases must be approved by the Administrative Committee. After the withdrawal deadline, change from P/F toregularly graded status is not permitted. Students who withdraw from a course after the change period receive the grade W (withdrawal). This grade is notused in the computation of the grade point average or class rank. A student who defaults in a course withoutdropping or withdrawing from it receives the grade F. Blair: A student may withdraw from a course after the official Change Period and prior to the deadline forPage 63 of 1019 